This study investigated reliability and validity evidence regarding the Early Numeracy test (EN- test ) in a sample of 1139 Swedish-speaking children (587 girls ) in kindergarten (n = 361), first grade (n = 321), and second grade (n = 457). Structural validity evidence was established through confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), which showed that a four-factor model fit the data significantly better than a one-factor or two- factor model. The known-group and cross-cultural validity were established through multigroup CFAs , finding that the four-factor model fit the gender , age and language groups equally well . Internal consistency for the test and sub-skills varied from good to excellent . The EN-test can be considered as an appropriate assessment to identify children at risk for mathematical learning difficulties . Hellstrand , H., Korhonen , J., Räsänen , P., Linnanmäki , K., &amp; Aunio , P. (2020). Reliability and validity evidence of the early numeracy test for identifying children at risk for mathematical learning difficulties . International Journal of Educational Research , 102 , 101580. Young children’s symbolic magnitude understanding , or knowledge of how written numerals and number words can be ordered and com- pared , is thought to play an important role in their mathematical development . There is consistent evidence that symbolic magnitude skills predict mathematical achievement in later childhood and adult - hood . Yet less is known about symbolic magnitude understanding before the start of formal schooling , a time when children are rapidly developing knowledge of small whole numbers . In this study , pre - schoolers (N = 140, Mean age = 4 years , 5 months ) were assessed using measures of numerical skills ( cardinality , symbolic magnitude , addi - tion ) and executive functioning ( working memory , inhibitory control , attention shifting ) in the winter and spring of the school year . Symbolic magnitude predicted later addition skills , fully mediating the relation between children’s cardinality and addition skills . Moreover , children’s domain-general executive functioning skills and domain - specific numeracy skills explained a similar amount of varia - bility in children’s later addition skills . Results highlight the role of symbolic magnitude in the development of children’s understanding of mathematics . Scalise , N. R., &amp; Ramani , G. B. (2021). Symbolic magnitude understanding predicts preschoolers ’ later addition skills . Journal of Cognition and Development , 22 (2), 185-202. Deficits in numerical magnitude perception characterize the mathematics learning disability developmental dyscalculia (DD), but recent studies suggest the relation stems from inhibitory control demands from incongruent visual cues in the nonsymbolic number comparison task . This study investigated the relation among magnitude perception during differing congruency conditions , executive function , and mathematics achievement measured longitudinally in children (n = 448) from ages 4 to 13. This relation was investigated across achievement groups and as it related to mathematics across the full range of achievement . Only performance on incongruent trials related to achievement . Findings indicate that executive function in a numerical context , beyond magnitude perception or executive function in a non-numerical context , relates to DD and mathematics across a wide range of achievement . Wilkey , E. D., Pollack , C., &amp; Price , G. R. (2020). Dyscalculia and typical math achievement are associated with individual differences in number ‐ specific executive function . Child development , 91 (2), 596-619. Children take years to learn symbolic arithmetic . Nevertheless , non-human animals , human adults with no formal education , and human infants represent approximate num - ber in arrays of objects and sequences of events , and they use these capacities to perform approximate addition and subtraction . Do children harness these abilities when they begin to learn school mathematics ? In two experiments in different schools , kindergarten chil - dren from diverse backgrounds were tested on their non-symbolic arithmetic abilities dur- ing the school year , as well as on their mastery of number words and symbols . Performance of non-symbolic arithmetic predicted children’s mathematics achievement at the end of the school year , independent of achievement in reading or general intelligence . Non-sym - bolic arithmetic performance was also related to children’s mastery of number words and symbols , which figured prominently in the assessments of mathematics achievement in both schools . Thus , non-symbolic and symbolic numerical abilities are specifically related , in children of diverse socio-economic backgrounds , near the start of mathematics instruction . Gilmore , C. K., McCarthy, S. E., &amp; Spelke , E. S. (2010). Non-symbolic arithmetic abilities and mathematics achievement in the first year of formal schooling . Cognition , 115 (3), 394-406. The Number Sets Test was developed to assess the speed and accuracy with which children can identify and process quantities represented by Arabic numerals and object sets . The utility of this test for predicting mathematics achievement and risk for mathematical learning dis - ability (MLD) was assessed for a sample of 223 children . A signal detection analysis of first grade Number Sets Test scores provided measures of children’s sensitivity to number and their response bias . The sensitivity measure , d ́, but not the response bias measure was predictive of third grade mathematics achievement scores , above and beyond the influence of intelligence , working memory , and first grade achievement scores . Further analyses assessed the sensitivity and specificity of the test and revealed that first grade d ́ scores identified 2 out of 3 children diagnosed as MLD in third grade and correctly identified about 9 out of 10 children who were not at risk for MLD. Geary , D. C., Bailey , D. H., &amp; Hoard , M. K. (2009). Predicting mathematical achievement and mathematical learning disability with a simple screening tool : The number sets test. Journal of Psychoeducational Assessment , 27 (3), 265-279. Children’s number competencies over 6 time points , from the beginning of kindergarten to the middle of 1st grade , were examined in relation to their mathematics achievement over 5 later time points , from the end of 1st grade to the end of 3rd grade . The relation between early number competence and mathematics achievement was strong and significant throughout the study period . A sequential process growth curve model showed that kindergarten number competence predicted rate of growth in mathematics achievement between 1st and 3rd grades as well as achievement level through 3rd grade . Further , rate of growth in early number competence predicted mathematics performance level in 3rd grade . Although low income children performed more poorly than their middle-income counterparts in mathematics achievement and progressed at a slower rate, their performance and growth were mediated through relatively weak kindergarten number competence . Similarly , the better performance and faster growth of children who entered kindergarten at an older age were explained by kindergarten number competence . The findings show the importance of early number competence for setting children’s learning trajectories in elementary school mathematics . Jordan, N. C., Kaplan, D., Ramineni , C., &amp; Locuniak , M. N. (2009). Early math matters : kindergarten number competence and later mathematics outcomes . Developmental psychology , 45 (3), 850. A longitudinal study was conducted on 82 children to investigate , firstly the numerical competence of young children and the predictive value of ( pre )- numerical tests in kindergarten , and , secondly , whether children's knowledge of the numerical system and representation of the number size is related to their computation and logical knowledge and to their counting skills . In an additional cross-sectional study on 30 children with a clinical diagnosis of mathematical learning disability (MLD) of 8,5 years , age - and ability-matched with 2 × 30 children the same parameters of numerical competence were assessed . The longitudinal data showed individual differences in numerosity , as well as the relationship between a delay in arithmetics in grade l and problems on numerosity in kindergarten . In the cross-sectional results some evidence was found for the independence of numerical abilities in MLD- children . About 13% of them had still severe pre-numerical processing deficits (in number sequence production , cardinality skills and logical knowledge ) in grade 3. About 67% had severe difficulties in executing calculation procedures and a lack of conceptual knowledge . A feature of 87% of the MLD- children was severe translation deficits , with a significantly worse knowledge of number words compared with the knowledge of Arab numerals . Finally a severe deficit in subitizing was found to be present in 33% of the MLD children . On a group level the processing deficits were linked to understanding numerosity , since the ability matched younger children and the MLD- children had the same pre-numerical and numerical profile. Implications for the assessment of mathematical disabilities and the value of TEDI-MATH® as an instrument in this process are discussed . Desoete , A., &amp; Grégoire , J. (2006). Numerical competence in young children and in children with mathematics learning disabilities . Learning and individual differences , 16 (4), 351-367. The aim of this study is to adapt the 6-year-old short version of the Tools for Early Assessment in Math (TEAM), which was developed to determine the mathematical skills of children aged 3-7, into Turkish and to perform reliability studies . The reliability research group of the assessment tool consisted of 230 children aged 6 who were attending preschool in Uşak. Kuder Richarson-20 and test- retest reliability were used to measure the internal consistency in the reliability studies of the 6-year-old short version of the TEAM. The test reliability of the 6-year-old short version of TEAM was examined for parts A ( Number and Operations) and B ( Geometry ). In the group of 6-year-old children attending preschool , the KR-20 reliability of the test was 0.92 for Part A and 0.81 for Part B. The test- retest result of the 6-year-old short version of TEAM was measured as r = . 828. The results of the analysis revealed that the assessment tool can be used reliably . Sönmez, N. Ö., &amp; Temel, F. Matematikte Erken Değerlendirme Araçları (TEAM) nın Türkçeye Uyarlanması. Uşak Üniversitesi Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi , 6 (3), 19-42. This study investigated reliability and validity evidence regarding the Early Numeracy test (EN-test) in a sample of 1139 Swedish-speaking children (587 girls ) in kindergarten ( n = 361), first grade ( n = 321), and second grade ( n = 457). Structural validity evidence was established through confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), which showed that a four-factor model fit the data significantly better than a one-factor or two- factor model. The known-group and cross-cultural validity were established through multigroup CFAs , finding that the four-factor model fit the gender , age and language groups equally well . Internal consistency for the test and sub-skills varied from good to excellent . The EN-test can be considered as an appropriate assessment to identify children at risk for mathematical learning difficulties . Hellstrand , H., Korhonen , J., Räsänen , P., Linnanmäki , K., &amp; Aunio , P. (2020). Reliability and validity evidence of the early numeracy test for identifying children at risk for mathematical learning difficulties . International Journal of Educational Research , 102 , 101580. We investigated whether the approximate number system (ANS) was related to arithmetic among kindergartners and the mechanism underlying this possible relation . Specifically , we examined whether numerical knowledge mediated the possible relation between the ANS and arithmetic after controlling for potential confounding cog - nitive variables . Results showed that the ANS was moderately related with early arithmetic (r = .36–.37). After controlling for age , IQ, visual attention , working memory , visuospatial processing , and inhibition , numerical knowledge demonstrated a medium media - tion effect (k2 = .09) on the relation between the ANS and arithmetic . Our findings suggest the importance of the ANS in early arithmetic and support the numerical knowledge mediation hypothesis . That is , numerical knowledge plays a more important role than visuospa - tial processing and inhibition in explaining the relation between the ANS and early arithmetic . Implications of these findings for early arithmetic instructions are discussed . Peng , P., Yang, X., &amp; Meng , X. (2017). The relation between approximate number system and early arithmetic : The mediation role of numerical knowledge . Journal of Experimental Child Psychology , 157 , 111-124. Although an increasing number of research studies have investigated the cognitive deficits related to difficulties in learning mathematics , little is known about whether these cognitive deficits longitudinally predict low mathematics achievement over time. The current 6-year longitudinal study was conducted to address this issue . A sample of 101 students was tested on various numerical and cognitive competencies when they were in kindergarten and in Grade 1. They were then followed until they were in Grade 6, and their mathematics achievement was assessed bi-annually . A group of persistent low mathematics achievers (PLA) who scored consistently below the 25th percentile was identified . This group of PLA showed difficulties in most of the numerical tasks as early as kindergarten . More importantly , three of the early predictors correctly identified 79% of the PLAs . The current findings provide valuable information concerning the core cognitive deficits underlying difficulties in learning mathematics as well as an important tool for educators for identifying children who are at risk of persistent math learning difficulties in the elementary school years . Wong , T. T. Y., &amp; Chan , W. W. L. (2019). Identifying children with persistent low math achievement : The role of number-magnitude mapping and symbolic numerical processing . Learning and Instruction , 60 , 29-40. In the current study , the factor structure of number sense, or the ability to understand , use , and manipulate numbers , was investigated . Previous analyses yielded little consensus concerning number sense factors , other than a distinction between nonsymbolic and symbolic processing . Furthermore , associations between number sense factors and working memory components were investigated to gain insight into working memory involvement in number sense. A total of 441 Dutch kindergartners took part in the study . The factor structure of number sense and associations with working memory were tested using structural equation modelling . Results indicated that there was a distinction between nonsymbolic and symbolic number processing . Nonsymbolic processing was predicted by central executive performance , and symbolic processing was predicted by both central executive and visuospatial sketchpad performance . This implies that symbolic and nonsymbolic processing are distinguishable at this age , and that working memory involvement in symbolic processing is different from that in nonsymbolic processing . Friso-van den Bos, I., Kroesbergen , E. H., &amp; Van Luit , J. E. (2014). Number sense in kindergarten children : Factor structure and working memory predictors . Learning and Individual Differences , 33 , 23-29. Mathematical skills have an important role in progress of the educational level of nations . Unfortunately , there are still some pupils in school with normal intellectual function , but they have different degrees of mathematical disabilities that really can fall apart their whole life. Dyscalculia is called number blindness . It is the name given to the condition that affects our ability to acquire arithmetical skills . In the Arabic language , there is a deficiency in tools for diagnosis of dyscalculia , so we conducted this study to formulate a test suitable for diagnosis of dyscalculia in Egyptian children via translation and modification of an American test (TOMA 3 test). Results : The modified test was highly significant in discriminating dyscalculic from non-dyscalculic Egyptian pupils regarding all items of the test. Conclusion : The Arabic version of TOMA-3 is valid and reliable for diagnosis of dyscalculia in Egyptian school-age children . Abdou , R. M., Hamouda , N. H., &amp; Fawzy , A. M. (2020). Validity and reliability of the Arabic dyscalculia test in diagnosing Egyptian dyscalculic school-age children . The Egyptian Journal of Otolaryngology , 36 , 1-5. For learning math , non-symbolic quantity skills , symbolic skills and the mapping between number symbols and non-symbolic quantities are all important precursors . Little is known , however , about the interrelated development of these skills . The current study focuses on numerical development by : (a) investigating the structure of non-symbolic , symbolic and mapping skills ; and (b) examining the role of non-symbolic versus symbolic numerical skills . Non-symbolic , symbolic and mapping skills of 69 children were assessed at age 4, 5 and 6. Results provided evidence for : (a) the developmental course of all numerical skills showing distinguishable skills at a younger age versus an integration of skills in older children ; and (b) the predominant role of symbolic skills versus the subordinate role of non-symbolic skills in the development of mapping skills . Moreover , symbolic and mapping skills were found to be important predictors for math performance . These results provide new insights in early numerical development . Kolkman , M. E., Kroesbergen , E. H., &amp; Leseman , P. P. (2013). Early numerical development and the role of non-symbolic and symbolic skills . Learning and instruction , 25 , 95-103. The aim of the present study was to address how to effectively predict mathematics learning dis - ability (MLD). Specifically , we addressed whether cognitive data obtained during kindergarten can effectively predict which children will have MLD in third grade , whether an abbreviated test battery could be as effective as a standard psychoeducational assessment at predicting MLD, and whether the abbreviated battery corresponded to the literature on MLD characteristics . Participants were 226 children who enrolled in a 4-year prospective longitudinal study during kindergarten . We administered measures of mathematics achievement , formal and informal mathematics ability , visual-spatial reasoning , and rapid automatized naming and examined which test scores and test items from kindergarten best predicted MLD at grades 2 and 3. Statistical models using standardized scores from the entire test battery correctly classified ∼ 80 – 83 percent of the participants as having , or not having , MLD. Regression models using scores from only individual test items were less predictive than models containing the standard scores , except for models using a specific subset of test items that dealt with reading numerals , number constancy , magnitude judgments of one-digit numbers , or mental addition of one-digit numbers . These models were as accurate in predicting MLD as was the model including the entire set of standard scores from the battery of tests examined . Our findings indicate that it is possible to effectively predict which kindergartners are at risk for MLD, and thus the findings have implications for early screening of MLD. Mazzocco , M. M., &amp; Thompson, R. E. (2005). Kindergarten predictors of math learning disability . Learning Disabilities Research &amp; Practice , 20 (3), 142-155. Three important features to examine for measures used to systematically monitor progress over time are (a) technical features of static scores , (b) technical features of slope , and (c) instructional utility . The purpose of this study was to investigate the technical features of slope of four early numeracy curriculum-based measures administered to kindergarten students . Approximately 200 students were assessed at the beginning and end of the school year , and a subset of students (n = 55) was assessed three additional times during the year . Growth curve analysis was used to model growth over time. The contribution of slope to explaining variance on a criterion measure was examined for the curriculum-based measures that fit a linear growth pattern . Implications are discussed regarding monitoring progress in early mathematics . Clarke, B., Baker, S., Smolkowski , K., &amp; Chard , D. J. (2008). An analysis of early numeracy curriculum-based measurement : Examining the role of growth in student outcomes . Remedial and Special Education , 29 (1), 46-57. This article concerns psychometric aspects of the Finnish Early Numeracy Test, which has been translated from the original Dutch Early Numeracy Test. The advantage of the test is that young children’s numerical skills can be assessed systematically , which was not possible previously in Finland . A norm study was conducted in which the test was administered to a representative sample of 1,029 Finnish children . The reliability and validity results justify the use of the test as an early-childhood screening test and in research on number sense. The indicative effects of gender , parental professional education , domicile and number of siblings are discussed . Aunio , P., Hautamäki , J., Heiskari , P., &amp; Van Luit , J. E. (2006). The early numeracy test in finnish : Children's norms . Scandinavian Journal of Psychology , 47 (5), 369-378. Basic numerical skills provide an important foundation for the learning of mathematics . Thus , it is critical that researchers and educators have access to valid and reliable ways of assessing young children's numerical skills . The purpose of this study was to evaluate the concurrent , predictive , and incremental validity of a two- minute paper-and-pencil measure of children's symbolic ( Arabic numerals ) and non-symbolic ( dot arrays ) comparison skills . A sample of kindergarten children ( Mage = 5.86, N = 439) were assessed on the measure along with a number line estimation task , a measure of arithmetic , and several control measures . Results indicated that performance on the symbolic comparison task explained unique variance in children's arithmetic performance in kindergarten . Longitudinal analyses demonstrated that both symbolic comparison and number line estimation in kindergarten were independent predictors of 1st grade mathematics achievement . However , only symbolic comparison remained a unique predictor once language skills and processing speed were taken into account . These results suggest that a two- minute paper-and-pencil measure of children's symbolic number comparison is a reliable predictor of children's early mathematics performance . Hawesa , Z., Nosworthyb , N., Archibalda , L., &amp; Ansaria , D. Kindergarten children's symbolic number comparison skills predict 1st grade mathematics achievement : Evidence from a two- minute paper-and-pencil test. Number sense development of 411 middle - and low-income kindergartners ( mean age 5.8 years ) was examined over 4 time points while controlling for gender , age , and reading skill . Although low-income children performed significantly worse than middle-income children at the end of kindergarten on all tasks , both groups progressed at about the same rate. An exception was story problems , on which the low-income group achieved at a slower rate; both income groups made comparable progress when the same problems were presented nonverbally with visual referents . Holding other predictors constant , there were small but reliable gender effects favoring boys on overall number sense performance as well as on nonverbal calculation . Using growth mixture modeling , 3 classes of growth trajectories in number sense emerged . Jordan, N. C., Kaplan, D., Nabors Oláh , L., &amp; Locuniak , M. N. (2006). Number sense growth in kindergarten : A longitudinal investigation of children at risk for mathematics difficulties . Child development , 77 (1), 153-175. The development of early numeracy skills in preschoolers is an important predictor of future academic performance . A multiplicity of tasks or tests measure early numeracy skills in the English- language . Nevertheless , no tools are currently in French for evaluating and monitoring the development of young children’s early numeracy skills . The present study addressed this situation by creating a set of early numeracy tasks in French. In addition to examining the psychometric properties of those early numeracy tasks , we used multiple regression analyses to examine possible links between early numeracy skills and children’s characteristics ( sex , age , socioeconomic status ). Results obtained on a sample of 167 French kindergarten students ( Mean = 5.17 years , Standard Deviation = 0.59) showed the tests to have good psychometric properties . Moreover , model fit for our data were better for a single-factor model than for a two- factor model. In addition , we found links between different dimensions of early numeracy and both children’s age and socioeconomic status . Thomas, A., Tazouti , Y., Hoareau , L., Luxembourger , C., Hubert, B., &amp; Jarlégan , A. (2023). Early Numeracy Assessment in French Preschool: structural analysis and links with children’s characteristics . International Journal of Early Years Education , 31 (4), 1018-1035. Number sense development was tracked from the beginning of kindergarten through the middle of first grade , over six time points . Children (n = 277) were then assessed on general math achievement at the end of first grade . Number sense performance in kindergarten , as well as number sense growth , accounted for 66 percent of the variance in first-grade math achieve - ment . Background characteristics of income status , gender , age , and reading ability did not add explanatory variance over and above growth in number sense. Even at the beginning of kindergarten , number sense was highly correlated with end of first-grade math achievement ( r = 0.70). Clarifying the observed slope effect , general growth mixture modeling showed that children who started kindergarten with low number sense but made moderate gains by the middle of kindergarten had higher first-grade math achievement than children who started out with similarly low number sense with flat growth . The majority of children in the low / flat growth class were from low-income families . The findings indicate that screening early number sense development is useful for identifying children who will face later math difficulties or disabilities . Jordan, N. C., Kaplan, D., Locuniak , M. N., &amp; Ramineni , C. (2007). Predicting first – grade math achievement from developmental number sense trajectories . Learning disabilities research &amp; practice , 22 (1), 36-46. Abstract!Developmental Dyscalculia (DD) is a specific learning disability of childhood , which is mainly related to problems in arithmetic skills and numerosity . It is estimated that the prevalence of dyscalculia range between 3 and 6 % of the world population . DD is a cognitive disorder , ob - served during the development of the individual . Mathemat - ical achievement of children with DD fall far short of their mental capacity . In this study we present an approach to genetic , neurological and environmental factors associated with DD, as well as the computerized screening tools that have been developed and used so far, according to the litera - ture review of the past two decades . Drigas , A., &amp; Pappas , M. (2015). ICT based screening tools and etiology of dyscalculia . 61-66 Mathematical difficulties have been distinguished as mathematics learning disability (MLD) and persistent low achievement (LA). Based on 1,880 Finnish children who were followed from kindergarten ( age 6) to fourth grade , this study examined the early risk factors for MLD and LA. Distinct groups of MLD (6.0% of the sample ) and LA (25.7%) children were identified on the basis of their mathematics performance between first and fourth grades with latent class growth modeling . Impairment in the same set of cognitive skills , including language , spatial , and counting skills , was found to underlie MLD and LA. The finding highlights the importance of monitoring mathematical development across the early grades and identifying early cognitive precursors of MLD and LA for screening and intervention efforts . Zhang, X., Räsänen , P., Koponen , T., Aunola , K., Lerkkanen , M. K., &amp; Nurmi , J. E. (2020). Early cognitive precursors of children's mathematics learning disability and persistent low achievement : A 5 ‐ year longitudinal study . Child development , 91 (1), 7-27. Abstract . A critical component in enhancing academic success is identifying children at risk of later academic difficulties . Although significant efforts have been devoted to design effective assessment processes in elementary school , fewer efforts ( particularly for mathematics ) have been made for preschool . The focus of this study was to design and evaluate a brief early numeracy skills screening tool . Measure development and validation occurred in a two- stage process with diverse and distinct samples . In the first stage , 393 preschool children were assessed on a battery of early numeracy tasks . By use of an item response theory framework , 24 items that spanned the ability continuum were selected for inclusion in the brief measure . In the second stage , 129 preschool children were assessed on the brief measure , the Test of Early Mathematics Ability –Third Edition, and two literacy measures . The data resulted in acceptable psychometric properties and strong diagnostic accuracy . Theoretical and practical implications are discussed . Purpura , D. J., Reid , E. E., Eiland , M. D., &amp; Baroody , A. J. (2015). Using a brief preschool early numeracy skills screener to identify young children with mathematics difficulties . School Psychology Review , 44 (1), 41-59. This study examines young children’s number sense in subjects from Finland ( n 254 ), Hong Kong ( n 246 ), and Singapore (n 130). Chinese , English and Finnish versions of the Early Numeracy Test (ENT; Van Luit et al., 1994) were used . Two highly correlated aspects of number sense were measured , one reflecting children’s abilities to organize and compare quantities ( i.e . relational skills ), and the other pertaining to their ability to operate with number-word sequence ( i.e . counting skills ). The results showed significant age-related gain on the relational and counting scales . No gender or language differences were found . The children in Hong Kong and Singapore outperformed those in Finland in relational and counting tasks starting at the age of four years . The children in Singapore also had better relational and counting skills than those in Hong Kong. Differences in teaching were assumed to explain the findings . Pirjo Aunio , Jessie Ee , Swee Eng Audrey Lim , Jarkko Hautamäki &amp; Johannes Van Luit (2004) Young children's number sense in Finland , Hong Kong and Singapore , International Journal of Early Years Education , 12:3, 195-216, DOI: 10.1080/0966976042000268681 Based on 138 Hong Kong kindergarten children (70 boys ; age : M ± SD = 4.98 ± 0.33 years ) followed from the second kindergarten year to the end of the third year , the present study aims to identify kindergarten children at risk for dyscalculia and investigate their early general cognitive and numerical precursors . Using latent class growth modeling , four groups of children were identified with differing trajectories of mathematical skill development . A group of children with poorest mathematical performance and thus at high risk for dyscalculia were compared with their peers with average achievement . Poor number line and number word comparison skills made unique contributions to the identification of children at risk for dyscalculia when general cognitive skills and demographic variables were added to the model. Identifying children at risk for dyscalculia in kindergarten and understanding their risk factors can help address their learning needs at a young age. Educational relevance and implications statement : In this study , we identified a group of children with poorest mathematical performance and thus at high risk for dyscalculia in kindergarten . We found that number word comparison and number line estimation skills predicted the identification of children at risk for dyscalculia . These two tasks can serve as quick screening tools to identify children at risk for dyscalculia in kindergarten . Subsequently , teachers and educators can deliver appropriate interventions to help these children improve their number word comparison and number line estimation skills in early years and prevent them from developing dyscalculia later on. Ouyang , X., Zou , X., &amp; Zhang, X. (2024). General cognitive and numerical precursors of mathematical difficulty in kindergarten children at risk for dyscalculia . Learning and Individual Differences , 114 , 102514. There are currently multiple explanations for mathematical learning disabilities (MLD). The present study focused on those assuming that MLD are due to a basic numerical deficit affecting the ability to represent and to manipulate number magnitude ( Butterworth , 1999, 2005; A. J. Wilson &amp; Dehaene , 2007) and / or to access that number magnitude representation from numerical symbols ( Rousselle &amp; Noël , 2007). The present study provides an original contribution to this issue by testing MLD children ( carefully selected on the basis of preserved abilities in other domains ) on numerical estimation tasks with contrasting symbolic ( Arabic numerals ) and nonsymbolic ( collection of dots ) numbers used as input or output . MLD children performed consistently less accurately than control children on all the estimation tasks . However , MLD children were even weaker when the task involved the mapping between symbolic and nonsymbolic numbers than when the task required a mapping between two nonsymbolic numerical formats . Moreover , in the estimation of nonsymbolic numerosities , MLD children relied more than control children on perceptual cues such as the cumulative area of the dots . Finally , the task requiring a mapping from a nonsymbolic format to a symbolic format was the best predictor of MLD. In order to explain these present results , as well as those reported in the literature , we propose that the impoverished number magnitude representation of MLD children may arise from an initial mapping deficit between number symbols and that magnitude representation . Mejias , S., Mussolin , C., Rousselle , L., Grégoire , J., &amp; Noël , M. P. (2012). Numerical and nonnumerical estimation in children with and without mathematical learning disabilities . Child Neuropsychology , 18 (6), 550-575. Background: Children’s understanding of symbolic ( e.g ., Arabic digits ) and non-symbolic ( e.g ., sets of dots ) magnitudes plays a key role in their mathematics achievement , but only a few studies directly compared the effects of symbolic and non-symbolic interventions on mathematical abilities . Aims : This longitudinal study compared the impact of symbolic and non-symbolic trainings in a group of preschoolers at risk of developing difficulties in mathematics (RM), analyzing their post- intervention performance both in early math skills ( last preschool year ) and in mathematics achievement in 1st grade . Methods : Eighty -nine RM children and 66 typically developing controls were selected from among 604 preschoolers . RM children were assigned to three intervention conditions : no intervention , symbolic or non-symbolic intervention . Results : Results showed specific effects on tasks related to the training ( e.g ., effects of symbolic training on symbolic tasks ) and some effects of generalization ( e.g ., effects of symbolic training on non-symbolic tasks ). In 1st grade , children attending the symbolic intervention showed a mathematics achievement profile similar to that of typically developing peers . Conclusions : These results suggest the importance of training the symbolic processing of numbers at preschool age , allowing at risk children to catch up with their peers before entering formal schooling . Tobia , V., Bonifacci , P., &amp; Marzocchi , G. M. (2021). Symbolic versus non-symbolic training for improving early numeracy in preschoolers at risk of developing difficulties in mathematics . Research in Developmental Disabilities , 111 , 103893. Although an increasing number of research studies have investigated the cognitive deficits related to difficulties in learning mathematics , little is known about whether these cognitive deficits longitudinally predict low mathematics achievement over time. The current 6-year longitudinal study was conducted to address this issue . A sample of 101 students was tested on various numerical and cognitive competencies when they were in kindergarten and in Grade 1. They were then followed until they were in Grade 6, and their mathematics achievement was assessed bi-annually . A group of persistent low mathematics achievers (PLA) who scored consistently below the 25th percentile was identified . This group of PLA showed difficulties in most of the numerical tasks as early as kindergarten . More importantly , three of the early predictors correctly identified 79% of the PLAs . The current findings provide valuable information concerning the core cognitive deficits underlying difficulties in learning mathematics as well as an important tool for educators for identifying children who are at risk of persistent math learning difficulties in the elementary school years . Wong , T. T. Y., &amp; Chan , W. W. L. (2019). Identifying children with persistent low math achievement : The role of number-magnitude mapping and symbolic numerical processing . Learning and Instruction , 60 , 29-40. This study investigated whether a latent class of children with math difficulties (MD) or math learning disabilities (MLD) emerged within a heterogeneous sample of learners . A latent class analysis was computed on children (N = 447) in grade 3 who were administered a battery of math , reading , and cognitive measures . The analysis yielded four important findings . First, a discrete latent class of children with MD (15% of the sample ) or MLD (10% of the sample ) emerged when setting cut-off scores at or below the 25th and 11th percentile , respectively . Second, model testing yielded a high probability of finding children with MD or MLD with reading problems as well as a latent class of low problem solvers with average reading and calculation scores . Third, knowledge of problem solving component processes , estimation and the executive component of WM were significant and unique correlates of latent classes at both cut -off points . Finally , children defined as MD at 25th percentile cut-off but not 11th percentile cut -off yielded high effect sizes on measures of reading , but not on cognitive measures , when compared to children identified at risk at both cut-off points . The results suggest that a statistically distinct latent class of children at risk for MD or MLD can be separated from a heterogeneous sample of children who vary in math , reading and fluid intelligence . Swanson , H. L., Olide , A. F., &amp; Kong, J. E. (2018). Latent class analysis of children with math difficulties and / or math learning disabilities : Are there cognitive differences ?. Journal of Educational Psychology , 110 (7), 931. Abstract Introduction : Current cognitive theories suggest that mathematical learning dis - abilities may be caused by a dysfunction in the ability to represent non-symbolic numerosity ( non -symbolic skills ), by impairments in the ability to associate symbolic numerical represen - tations with the underlying analogic non-numerical magnitude representation ( symbolic and numerical mapping skills ), or by a combination of both deficits . The aim of this study was to contrast the number sense hypothesis and the access deficit hypothesis , to identify the possible origin of the varying degrees of arithmetical difficulties . Method : We compared the perfor - mance of children with very low arithmetic achievement (VLA), children with low arithmetical achievement (LA), and typically achieving peers (TA), in non-symbolic , symbolic and numerical mapping tasks . Intellectual capacity and working memory were also evaluated as control vari - ables . The sample comprised 85 Chilean children (3rd to 6th grades ) from the Public General Education System . Data were included in several covariance analyses to identify potentially different behavioural profiles between groups . Results : The results showed deficits in both non -symbolic numerosity processing and number-magnitude mapping skills in children with VLA, whereas children with LA exhibited deficits in numerical mapping tasks only . Conclusions : These findings support the hypothesis of impaired non-symbolic numerical representations as the cognitive foundation of severe arithmetical difficulties . Low arithmetical achievement , in contrast , seems to be better explained by defective numerical mapping skills , which fits the access deficit hypothesis . The results presented here provide new evidence regarding the cogni - tive mechanisms underlying the different behavioural profiles identified in children with varying degrees of arithmetical difficulties . Castro Cañizares , D., Dartnell , P., &amp; Pérez , N. E. (2021). Exploring basic numerical capacities in children with difficulties in simple arithmetical achievement . Suma Psicológica , 28 (1), 1-9. The study tested the hypothesis that acuity of the potentially inherent approximate number system (ANS) contributes to risk of mathematical learning disability (MLD). Sixty-eight (35 boys ) preschoolers at risk for school failure were assessed on a battery of quantitative tasks , and on intelligence , executive control , preliteracy skills , and parental education . Mathematics achievement scores at the end of 1 year of preschool indicated that 34 of these children were at high risk for MLD. Relative to the 34 typically achieving children , the at risk children were less accurate on the ANS task , and a one standard deviation deficit on this task resulted in a 2.4-fold increase in the odds of MLD status . The at risk children also had a poor understanding of ordinal relations , and had slower learning of Arabic numerals , number words , and their cardinal values . Poor performance on these tasks resulted in 3.6- to 4.5-fold increases in the odds of MLD status . The results provide some support for the ANS hypothesis but also suggest these deficits are not the primary source of poor mathematics learning . Chu , F. W., VanMarle , K., &amp; Geary , D. C. (2013). Quantitative deficits of preschool children at risk for mathematical learning disability . Frontiers in psychology , 4 , 195. This paper aims to highlight the significance of a particular aspect of magnitude processing , namely counting and subitizing or the rapid enumeration of small sets of items , for learning . Emphasis is laid on the historical roots and the conceptual framework as well as on studies on pre-verbal and school-age children . Evidence of the potential value of this research for the assessment of children at risk of mathematical learning disabilities , is presented . Inherent to its nature , subitizing relies on rapid , preverbal analogue magnitude comparisons being triggered . We will highlight the differences with counting , and the implications of short - comings in counting and subitizing in children with mathematical learning disabilities for the automaticity of number magnitude processing . Furthermore we especially look in this paper at the varying assessment paradigms which are used in research with different age groups , something which has received insufficient attention in the past . Finally , we outline the challenges for future research on mathematical learning disabilities . Desoete , A., Ceulemans , A., Roeyers , H., &amp; Huylebroeck , A. (2009). Subitizing or counting as possible screening variables for learning disabilities in mathematics education or learning ?. Educational Research Review , 4 (1), 55-66. Background: Profiles of mathematical learning disability (MLD) have been conceptualized in the literature , but empirical evidence to support them based on academic and cognitive character - istics is lacking . Aims : We examined whether profiles of mathematics performance can empirically be identified and whether the identified profiles also differ in underlying cognitive skills . Methods and Procedures : Latent profile analysis in 281 fourth-graders . Basic arithmetic and ad- vanced mathematics were used to identify profiles . Cognitive skills were then described for each profile of mathematics performance . Outcomes and Results : Four profiles of mathematics performance were retrieved from the data , including one general low-achieving profile. Additional profiles of MLD were not found , possibly because individual variation was substantial . Conclusions and Implications : It is highly important to understand children’s mathematics per - formance from an individual perspective , rather than by averaging these children over sub - groups . These new insights can be used to better tend to the specific needs of children with mathematical difficulties . Huijsmans , M. D., Kleemans , T., van der Ven, S. H., &amp; Kroesbergen , E. H. (2020). The relevance of subtyping children with mathematical learning disabilities . Research in Developmental Disabilities , 104 , 103704. Cognitive skill differences that are apparent early in pre-kindergarten ( pre -K) might provide predictive insights into risk for learning difficulties at school entry , particularly around early markers of risk for comorbid difficulties in early math and literacy . Domain- specific abilities ( approximate number system or ANS acuity , phonological awareness ) and domain-general abilities ( working memory , vigilance , executive attention , and nonverbal IQ) were assessed in 493 children at the beginning of pre -K, to better understand how each uniquely contributes to risk for math difficulties (MD), and comorbid math and reading difficulties (MDRD). At the end of pre -K, standardized math and reading tests were used to form three risk groups (MD, MDRD, not-at-risk) with two severity cut points for math and reading (≤ 25 th,≤ 16th percentiles ). Discriminant function analysis was used to determine whether and in what ways the groups differed on the cognitive variables . Both MD and MDRD-risk groups differentiated from the not-at-risk group on all variables except for ANS acuity , a finding that was convergent across severity cut points . The only significant contrast for ANS acuity emerged between the most severe MD only group and the not-at-risk group . Only vigilance or sustained attention supported the differentiation of MD risk from MDRD risk. Consistent with school-age studies of comorbidity , MDRD risk was also associated with the lowest levels of math and cognitive skills in this pre-kindergarten sample . Results reveal a potential specific role for sustained attention as an early risk factor for comorbid MDRD, a severe form of learning disability . Barnes , M. A., Clemens , N. H., Fall, A. M., Roberts, G., Klein , A., Starkey , P., ... &amp; Flynn, K. (2020). Cognitive predictors of difficulties in math and reading in pre-kindergarten children at high risk for learning disabilities . Journal of Educational Psychology , 112 (4), 685. The purpose of this study was to compare subgroups of students with various forms of learning difficulties (&lt; 25 th percentile ) on cognitive and mathematics characteristics . Students with mathematics difficulty (MD, n = 105), reading difficulty (RD, n = 65), both (MDRD, n = 87), or neither ( NoLD , n = 403) were evaluated on an array of cognitive measures ( e.g ., working memory and language ) and on mathematics measures of foundational numerical competencies , computation , and problem solving . Results revealed expected level differences among groups in both domains : NoLD outperformed RD, and MD outperformed MDRD. Profile differences were noted among pairs of subgroups on cognitive measures . On mathematics measures , profile differences were noted between RD and other subgroups , but not between MD and MDRD subgroups . The most discriminating cognitive measures were processing speed and language ; the most discriminating mathematics measures depended on the subgroups being compared . Results were further evaluated according to more severe (&lt; 10 th percentile ) criteria for MD and RD, which generally affected level differences more than the profile patterns . Results have implications for understanding comorbid MD and RD and for conceptualizing core deficits in MD. Cirino , P. T., Fuchs , L. S., Elias, J. T., Powell , S. R., &amp; Schumacher, R. F. (2015). Cognitive and mathematical profiles for different forms of learning difficulties . Journal of learning disabilities , 48 (2), 156-175. Although numerical skills have proven to be important precursors for mathematical proficiency , longitudinal studies on numerical development are rather scarce . The overall goal of the present study is to gain insight in numerical skills , that is non-symbolic and symbolic comparison skills , as precursors of mapping skills and basic math achievement of children within a longitudinal design . Over two and a half years , 671 kindergartners ( mean age 4.6 years at the start of the study ) were assessed on non-symbolic and symbolic comparison skills at six time points , and on their basic math achievement ( divided into math fluency and math reasoning ), and mapping skills at the end of first grade . Multivariate latent growth curve models show an interrelation between ( the development of) non-symbolic and symbolic comparison skills . Results furthermore reveal symbolic comparison skills as the most important predictor of mapping skills and basic math achievement . Growth in non symbolic comparison skills predicted math fluency in first grade . Toll , S. W., Van Viersen , S., Kroesbergen , E. H., &amp; Van Luit , J. E. (2015). The development of ( non -) symbolic comparison skills throughout kindergarten and their relations with basic mathematical skills . Learning and Individual Differences , 38 , 10-17. Forty-five children with mathematics learning disabilities , with and without comorbid reading disabilities , were compared to 45 normally achieving peers in tasks assessing basic numerical skills . Children with mathematics disabilities were only impaired when comparing Arabic digits ( i.e ., symbolic number magnitude ) but not when comparing collections ( i.e ., non-symbolic number magnitude ). Moreover , they automatically processed number magnitude when comparing the physical size of Arabic digits in an Stroop paradigm adapted for processing speed differences . Finally , no evidence was found for differential patterns of performance between MD and MD/RD children in these tasks . These findings suggest that children with mathematics learning disabilities have difficulty in accessing number magnitude from symbols rather than in processing numerosity per se. Rousselle , L., &amp; Noël , M. P. (2007). Basic numerical skills in children with mathematics learning disabilities : A comparison of symbolic vs non-symbolic number magnitude processing . Cognition , 102 (3), 361-395. Citation (APA 7th): Ashwini R.; Aswini E.; Kiruthika A.R.; Mahesh P.; Vasanth B.; Saravanan S. (2024). Smart Embedded Systems for Childhood Learning Disability Screening . * Proceedings of the 2024 10th International Conference on Communication and Signal Processing , ICCSP 2024*. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCSP60870.2024.10543810 Abstract : Learning disabilities known as Specific Learning Disabilities (SLD) encompass various functional areas where individuals encounter challenges due to unidentified factors . These disorders manifest as difficulties in specific language and speech skills development , with examples including dyslexia for reading and dyscalculia for mathematics . The underlying factors contributing to these challenges affect the brain's functionality , impeding its capacity to perceive and process information effectively . Consequently , individuals with such learning disabilities may face obstacles in acquiring knowledge comparable to their unaffected counterparts . To assess and characterize these difficulties , evaluations like Speech Analysis for Speech- based Processing and Calculation Tests for mind co-ordination are employed . These assessments scrutinize pronunciation , spelling , and the brain's analytical response to mathematical calculations . The outcomes of these evaluations are then appraised through Frontend screening and stored in a Backend Database to categorize them based on inadequate development in academic , language , and speech skills . © 2024 IEEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Svraka B.; Lasker J.; Ujma P.P. (2024). Cognitive , affective and sociological predictors of school performance in mathematics . * Scientific Reports *. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-77904-7 Abstract : Mathematics is a key school subject for some of the most lucrative and economically important careers . Low mathematics performance in school is associated with low psychometric intelligence , family socioeconomic status (SES), specific mathematical abilities , and high mathematics anxiety . We used a sample of Hungarian schoolchildren (N = 102, mean age = 12.3 years ) to directly compare the predictive power of general intelligence , specific mathematical abilities measured by the Pedagogical Examination of Dyscalculia (DPV), mathematics anxiety , and socioeconomic status for mathematics grades . Mathematics grades correlated with IQ, specific mathematic ability , mathematics anxiety , and a composite measure of family SES. The WISC-IV showcased a manifest correlation of 0.62 and a latent correlation of 0.78 with the DPV and high manifest (r=-0.53) and latent (r=-0.59) correlations with mathematics anxiety . IQ alone accounted for 52% of the variance in mathematics grades . IQ, specific mathematical ability , family SES and mathematics anxiety jointly accounted for 56% of the variance in grades , with a non-significant contribution of specific mathematical ability and family SES over IQ and a marginal contribution of mathematics anxiety . Our results show that psychometric intelligence is the most important predictor of mathematics grades , while family SES and specific mathematical abilities are only associated with grades to the extent they reflect psychometric intelligence . The results , however , confirmed a small role of mathematics anxiety over intelligence in predicting grades . © The Author(s) 2024. --- Citation (APA 7th): Karagiannakis G.; Noël M.-P.; Baccaglini -Frank A.; Termine C. (2024). Mathematical skills classification through primary education . * Discover Education *. https://doi.org/10.1007/s44217-024-00267-8 Abstract : By the end of primary school , children are expected to acquire a range of mathematical skills that progressively develop . This study aimed to gain insight into how a large number of numerical and geometrical measures are grouped and whether the structures shift or remain invariant along child’s development based on the data obtained from a sample of 1346 s to sixth grade children . On the basis of correlation analyses and exploratory factor analyses , we came up with an invariant four-factor structure for each grade . The four factors obtained were the following : (a) early and retrieval skills ( subitizing , enumeration , number facts ) (b) transcoding and ordinality skills , (c) numerical advanced skills and (d) visual-spatial advanced skills . Confirmatory factor analyses showed that the four-factor model fits well to the data (RMSEA &lt; 0.06 , CFI &gt; 0.95, GFI &gt; 0.93, SRMR &lt; 0.05) at all grades . The associations between the mathematical measures were captured in each factor and the revealed invariant structure is discussed and compared with previous classification models of mathematical skills . Given that the difficulties in learning mathematics is currently being viewed as a continuum of academic abilities instead of a distinct problem, the underlying invariant four-factor structure can facilitate experts and educators to better understand how a broad area of mathematical skills are related across the primary education , in order to carry our comprehensive assessment of both the mathematical strengths and weaknesses of their students and to apply the appropriate customized teaching strategies . © The Author(s) 2024. --- Citation (APA 7th): Correig-Fraga E.; Vilalta-Riera A.; Calvo-Pesce C. (2024). Development and validation of a semi- automated , scalable response to intervention framework in mathematics . *SN Social Sciences *. https://doi.org/10.1007/s43545-024-00835-7 Abstract : Response to Intervention (RTI) has been shown to be better at identifying and addressing learning difficulties than other frameworks . However , only a few educational systems have implemented it, and it can be difficult for schools to implement RTI on their own without policies in place . One solution is to create semi- automated digital tools that can assist with RTI without requiring a lot of extra time from the teacher . This study describes the development and implementation of such tools in schools that were not previously familiar with RTI. The effectiveness of the tools was tested by comparing 5 schools (149 students ) that used RTI with 8 schools (269 students ) that did not. The results showed that the extra practice was effective and that students in the intervention group made significantly more progress in arithmetic fluency than their peers in the control group . These students were also more likely to leave the “ low achievement ” and “at risk of Mathematics Learning Difficulties ” zones than students in the control group . This suggests that it is possible to develop a scalable RTI framework and implement it in educational systems without RTI- based policies . © The Author(s) 2024. --- Citation (APA 7th): Isella V.; Licciardo D.; Ferri F.; Crivellaro C.; Morzenti S.; Appollonio I.M.; Ferrarese C. (2024). Left and right corticobasal syndrome : comparison of cognitive profiles between metabolic imaging - matched groups . * Neurological Sciences *. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10072-023-07148-2 Abstract : Background: Corticobasal syndrome (CBS) is typically asymmetric . Case reports suggest that left-hemisphere CBS ( lhCBS ) is associated with major language impairment , and right-hemisphere CBS ( rhCBS ) is associated with major visuospatial deficits , but no group study has ever verified these observations . In our study , we enrolled 49 patients with CBS, classified them as lhCBS or rhCBS based on asymmetry of hypometabolism on brain FDG-PET and compared their cognitive and behavioural profiles . Methods : We defined asymmetry of hypometabolism upon visual inspection of qualitative PET images and confirmed it through paired comparison of left - and right-hemisphere FDG uptake values . The two groups were also matched for severity of hypometabolism within the more affected and more preserved hemispheres , to unravel differences in the cognitive profiles ascribable specifically to each hemisphere’s functional specializations . All patients were assessed for memory , language , executive and visuospatial deficits , apraxia , neglect , dyscalculia , agraphia and behavioural disturbances . Results : LhCBS (n. 26) and rhCBS (n. 23) patients did not differ for demographics , disease duration and severity of global cognitive impairment . The two cognitive profiles were largely overlapping , with two exceptions : Digit span forward was poorer in lhCBS , and visual neglect was more frequent in rhCBS . Conclusions : After balancing out patients for hemispheric hypometabolism , we did not confirm worse language or visuospatial deficits in, respectively , lhCBS and rhCBS . However , verbal short-term memory was more impaired in lhCBS , and spatial attention was more impaired in rhCBS . Both of these functions reflect the functional specialization of the left and right fronto-parietal pathways , i.e . of the main loci of neurodegeneration in CBS. © The Author(s) 2023. --- Citation (APA 7th): Slipenkyj M.; Hutchison J.; Ansari D.; Lyons I.M.; Bugden S. (2024). Ordinal Processing Differences Between Children With Persistent Dyscalculia and Typically Performing Children . * Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology *. https://doi.org/10.1037/cep0000343 Abstract : Ordinal number processing skills are important for adults and children . Recent work demonstrates that children have difficulty with judging the ordinality of sequences that are in- order but do not match the typical count-list ( i.e ., in- order non-adjacent sequences , such as 2-4-6). Limited evidence in the literature suggests that dyscalculic children show a similar pattern of behavior . In the present study , we sought to explicitly test the hypothesis that children with developmental dyscalculia struggle primarily with extending notions of ordinality to sequences outside of the count-list . We test this hypothesis using a sample of children with persistent developmental dyscalculia , and a comparison group of typically performing children . Both groups completed an ordinality judgment task , in which triplet sequences were judged as being in- order ( e.g ., 3-4-5; 2-4-6) or in mixed-order ( e.g ., 3-5-4; 2-6-4). In line with our prediction , results demonstrate that children with persistent developmental dyscalculia make more errors , compared to typically performing children , but only on the in- order non-adjacent trials ( e.g ., 2-4-6). Broadly , this finding suggests that ordinality processing abilities are impaired in children with developmental dyscalculia , and that this characteristic appears primarily in extending notions of ordinality beyond adjacent sequences . © 2024 Canadian Psychological Association --- Citation (APA 7th): Gaitan J.V.P.; Sánchez I.I.; Gaitan J.E.M. (2024). Deciphering dyscalculia : An engineering analisis . *7th International Congress on Ambient Intelligence , Software Engineering , and e- Health and Mobile Health , AmITIC 2024*. https://doi.org/10.1109/AmITIC62658.2024.10747591 Abstract : In the educational field of mathematics , calculation is positioned as a fundamental skill but also as one of the areas with the greatest challenges for students . Dyscalculia , with an estimated prevalence classified as an evolutionary learning disorder , marking a significant change in the understanding and clinical-educational management of this condition.Research highlights dyscalculia as a structural disorder in the development of mathematical skills , characterized by difficulties in calculation , numerical understanding and other specific functions . Characteristics such as confusion of numbers and problems with basic mathematical operations are detailed , highlighting their negative impact on the academic performance and daily life of those affected.A central focus of the research is the analysis of the contexts that involve people with dyscalculia and from engineering analysis to verify mathematical skills in educational inclusion . By highlighting the elements involved in dyscalculia , we propose important criteria for the design of a software prototype for its diagnosis that effectively supports students affected by this disorder . © 2024 IEEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Hellstrand H.; Holopainen S.; Korhonen J.; Räsänen P.; Hakkarainen A.; Laakso M.-J.; Laine A.; Aunio P. (2024). Arithmetic fluency and number processing skills in identifying students with mathematical learning disabilities . * Research in Developmental Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2024.104795 Abstract : Background: Students with mathematical learning disabilities (MLD) struggle with number processing skills ( e.g ., enumeration and number comparison ) and arithmetic fluency . Traditionally , MLD is identified based on arithmetic fluency . However , number processing skills are suggested to differentiate low achievement (LA) from MLD. Aims : This study investigated the accuracy of number processing skills in identifying students with MLD and LA, based on arithmetic fluency , and whether the classification ability of number processing skills varied as a function of grade level . Methods and procedures : The participants were 18,405 students ( girls = 9080) from Grades 3–9 ( ages 9–15). Students ’ basic numerical skills were assessed with an online dyscalculia screener ( Functional Numeracy Assessment – Dyscalculia Battery , FUNA-DB), which included number processing and arithmetic fluency as two factors . Outcomes and results : Confirmatory factor analyses supported a two- factor structure of FUNA- DB. The two- factor structure was invariant across language groups , gender , and grade levels . Receiver operating characteristics curve analyses indicated that number processing skills are a fair classifier of MLD and LA status across grade levels . The classification accuracy of number processing skills was better when predicting MLD ( cut-off &lt; 5 %) compared to LA ( cut-off &lt; 25 %). Conclusions and implications : Results highlight the need to measure both number processing and arithmetic fluency when identifying students with MLD. © 2024 The Authors --- Citation (APA 7th): Mateu-Estivill R.; Adan A.; Grau S.; Rifà-Ros X.; Caldú X.; Bargalló N.; Serra- Grabulosa J.M. (2024). Alterations in functional brain connectivity associated with developmental dyscalculia . * Journal of Neuroimaging *. https://doi.org/10.1111/jon.13236 Abstract : Background and Purpose : In recent years , there has been a growing interest in the study of resting neural networks in different neurological and mental disorders . While previous studies suggest that the default mode network (DMN) may be altered in dyscalculia , the study of resting-state networks in the development of numerical skills , especially in children with developmental dyscalculia (DD), is scarce and relatively recent . Based on this , this study examines differences in resting-state functional connectivity ( rs -FC) data of children with DD using functional connectivity multivariate pattern analysis ( fc -MVPA), a data- driven methodology that summarizes properties of the entire connectome . Methods : We performed fc - MVPA on resting-state images of a sample composed of a group of children with DD (n = 19, 8.06 ± 0.87 years ) and an age - and sex-matched control group of typically developing children (n = 23, 7.76 ± 0.46 years ). Results : Analysis of fc -MVPA showed significant differences between group connectivity profiles in two clusters allocated in both the right and left medial temporal gyrus . Post hoc effect size results revealed a decreased rs -FC between each temporal pole and the DMN in children with DD and an increased rs -FC between each temporal pole and the sensorimotor network. Conclusions : Our results suggest an aberrant information flow between resting-state networks in children with DD, demonstrating the importance of these networks for arithmetic development . © 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroimaging published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society of Neuroimaging . --- Citation (APA 7th): Dhingra K.; Aggarwal R.; Garg A.; Pujari J.; Yadav D. (2024). Mathlete : an adaptive assistive technology tool for children with dyscalculia . * Disability and Rehabilitation : Assistive Technology *. https://doi.org/10.1080/17483107.2022.2134473 Abstract : Purpose : The use of technology in teaching and learning process for children is gaining importance . Children with specific learning disabilities have shown positive results with assistive technology tools . Dyscalculia is a specific learning disability in which an individual faces problem in mathematical skills . Around 3–7% of the world population is affected with it. The aim of the current research study is to determine the effectiveness of an assistive technology tool , Mathlete on children with dyscalculia’s early numeracy skills . Such assistive technology tools can serve as a boon for these children . Method : A total of 40 children with dyscalculia ( Mage = 6.8 years ) were a part of the study . The group of 40 children were randomly divided into two groups : experiment group using mathlete for improving their learning (30 children ) and a control group using only traditional teaching for learning (10 children ). The children were screened for dyscalculia using the screening module of mathlete . Results : The two groups showed no significant difference in terms of their socio-economic status , gender and parents education level . Children in the experiment group showed improvement from pre -test to post-test after using mathlete . Also , there was significant difference in learning of both the groups , children in experiment group could understand the concepts better than the ones in control group . Conclusion : Mathlete helped improve the mathematical learning of children with dyscalculia from pre -test to post-test. © 2022 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &amp; Francis Group . --- Citation (APA 7th): Abdelaziz S.Y.; Abdelhameed H.R. (2024). Improving Mathematical Skills for Pupils with Specific Learning Disabilities . *International Journal of Special Education *. https://doi.org/10.52291/ijse.2024.39.16 Abstract : A consistent percentage of early school-aged children are diagnosed with specific learning disabilities ( SLDs ), which are neurodevelopmental disorders that affect specific areas of academic function and the capacity to perform and comprehend reading , writing , or arithmetic . The current study explores the effectiveness of a training program in developing the mathematics skills of pupils with Dyscalculia . Participants in this study are ten primary pupils between the ages of 9-11, divided equally among the experimental and control groups diagnosed with Dyscalculia . The general mental ability test, the rapid nerve screening test, the diagnostic assessment scale for mathematics disabilities , the dyscalculia scale , and the mathematical achievement test were used to diagnose Dyscalculia , and the training program was used to improve the mathematical skills in pupils with Dyscalculia . Results show statistically significant differences between the mean scores of the pupils of the experimental and control groups in mathematics skills in the post- measurement in favor of the experimental group , which means that the appropriate intervention can allow pupils with Dyscalculia to succeed at acquiring mathematical skills . © 2022 Authors . --- Citation (APA 7th): Andrade-Arenas L.; Yactayo-Arias C. (2024). Expert system for diagnosing learning disorders in children . *International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering *. https://doi.org/10.11591/ijece.v14i3.pp2965-2975 Abstract : Given the urgent need for early detection of learning disorders such as dysgraphia , dyslexia , and dyscalculia in children , this study aimed to evaluate an expert system developed in Python to facilitate early diagnosis of these disorders . The background highlights the importance of providing parents , educators , and health professionals with an effective tool for early detection of these disorders . In 21 simulated cases , the system showed impressive performance with an accuracy rate of 95%, a precision of 100%, a sensitivity of 93%, and a specificity of 100%. Furthermore , the acceptability evaluation , conducted with 15 parents selected by convenience sampling , showed a high level of satisfaction , with an overall mean of 4.78 and a standard deviation of 0.45, indicating consistency in responses . In conclusion , this study confirms the effectiveness of the expert system in the early diagnosis of learning disabilities , providing parents , educators , and health professionals with a valuable tool . Despite these encouraging results , the need for additional research is recognized to address limitations and improve the external validity of the system to ensure its widespread utility and adaptability in real clinical settings . © 2024 Institute of Advanced Engineering and Science . All rights reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Pinheiro-Chagas P.; Sava- Segal C.; Akkol S.; Daitch A.; Parvizi J. (2024). Spatiotemporal Dynamics of Successive Activations across the Human Brain during Simple Arithmetic Processing . * The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience *. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2118-22.2024 Abstract : Previous neuroimaging studies have offered unique insights about the spatial organization of activations and deactivations across the brain ; however , these were not powered to explore the exact timing of events at the subsecond scale combined with a precise anatomical source of information at the level of individual brains . As a result , we know little about the order of engagement across different brain regions during a given cognitive task . Using experimental arithmetic tasks as a prototype for human-unique symbolic processing , we recorded directly across 10,076 brain sites in 85 human subjects (52% female ) using the intracranial electroencephalography . Our data revealed a remarkably distributed change of activity in almost half of the sampled sites . In each activated brain region , we found juxtaposed neuronal populations preferentially responsive to either the target or control conditions , arranged in an anatomically orderly manner . Notably , an orderly successive activation of a set of brain regions-anatomically consistent across subjects-was observed in individual brains . The temporal order of activations across these sites was replicable across subjects and trials . Moreover , the degree of functional connectivity between the sites decreased as a function of temporal distance between regions , suggesting that the information is partially leaked or transformed along the processing chain . Our study complements prior imaging studies by providing hitherto unknown information about the timing of events in the brain during arithmetic processing . Such findings can be a basis for developing mechanistic computational models of human-specific cognitive symbolic systems . Copyright © 2024 the authors . --- Citation (APA 7th): Ouyang X.; Zou X.; Zhang X. (2024). General cognitive and numerical precursors of mathematical difficulty in kindergarten children at risk for dyscalculia . *Learning and Individual Differences *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2024.102514 Abstract : Based on 138 Hong Kong kindergarten children (70 boys ; age : M ± SD = 4.98 ± 0.33 years ) followed from the second kindergarten year to the end of the third year , the present study aims to identify kindergarten children at risk for dyscalculia and investigate their early general cognitive and numerical precursors . Using latent class growth modeling , four groups of children were identified with differing trajectories of mathematical skill development . A group of children with poorest mathematical performance and thus at high risk for dyscalculia were compared with their peers with average achievement . Poor number line and number word comparison skills made unique contributions to the identification of children at risk for dyscalculia when general cognitive skills and demographic variables were added to the model. Identifying children at risk for dyscalculia in kindergarten and understanding their risk factors can help address their learning needs at a young age. Educational relevance and implications statement : In this study , we identified a group of children with poorest mathematical performance and thus at high risk for dyscalculia in kindergarten . We found that number word comparison and number line estimation skills predicted the identification of children at risk for dyscalculia . These two tasks can serve as quick screening tools to identify children at risk for dyscalculia in kindergarten . Subsequently , teachers and educators can deliver appropriate interventions to help these children improve their number word comparison and number line estimation skills in early years and prevent them from developing dyscalculia later on. © 2024 Elsevier Inc . --- Citation (APA 7th): Mukherjee K.; Kumar R.; Vasishat S.; Bhargava N.; Upadhyay S.; Muhuri S. (2024). Unraveling Dyscalculia : Identifying Mathematical Learning Difficulties in Early Education . *2024 International Conference on Innovations and Challenges in Emerging Technologies, ICICET 2024*. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICICET59348.2024.10616352 Abstract : This study presents a comprehensive intervention approach designed to address dyscalculia in early education . The strategy employs a comprehensive approach that incorporates colour identification , numerical enumeration , mathematical computation , and verbal communication . The initiative seeks to employ a technology for creating interactive learning modules that successfully engage students in various numerical activities . Student progress is evaluated by the application of fuzzy logic , which allows for a thorough understanding of each student's unique learning trajectory . The adaptive approach tailors the difficulty level of exercises based on the student's performance , ensuring a tailored learning experience . This intervention specifically focuses on primary school students , aiming to provide early support and intervention to those who are either at risk of or have already been diagnosed with dyscalculia . The objective of the study is to provide a robust foundation for forthcoming mathematical abilities . © 2024 IEEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Schwizer Ashkenazi S.; Roell M.; McCaskey U.; Cachia A.; Borst G.; O'Gorman Tuura R.; Kucian K. (2024). Are numerical abilities determined at early age ? A brain morphology study in children and adolescents with and without developmental dyscalculia . * Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dcn.2024.101369 Abstract : The intraparietal sulcus (IPS) has been associated with numerical processing . A recent study reported that the IPS sulcal pattern was associated with arithmetic and symbolic number abilities in children and adults . In the present study , we evaluated the link between numerical abilities and the IPS sulcal pattern in children with Developmental Dyscalculia (DD) and typically developing children (TD), extending previous analyses considering other sulcal features and the postcentral sulcus ( PoCS ). First, we confirm the longitudinal sulcal pattern stability of the IPS and the PoCS . Second, we found a lower proportion of left sectioned IPS and a higher proportion of a double -horizontal IPS shape bilaterally in DD compared to TD. Third, our analyses revealed that arithmetic is the only aspect of numerical processing that is significantly related to the IPS sulcal pattern ( sectioned vs not sectioned ), and that this relationship is specific to the left hemisphere . And last , correlation analyses of age and arithmetic in children without a sectioned left IPS indicate that although they may have an inherent disadvantage in numerical abilities , these may improve with age. Thus , our results indicate that only the left IPS sulcal pattern is related to numerical abilities and that other factors co-determine numerical abilities . © 2024 The Authors --- Citation (APA 7th): Mareva S.; Lead Investigators ; Astle D.; Baker K.; Gathercole S.; Holmes J.; Kievit R.; Manly T.; Team of Researchers and PhD Students ; Akarca D.; Bathelt J.; Bettencourt M.; Bennett M.; Bignardi G.; Bishop S.; Bottacin E.; Bridge L.; Brkic D.; Bryant A.; Butterfield S.; Byrne E.; Crickmore G.; Dalmaijer E.; Daly F.; Emery T.; Forde L.; Franckel G.; Furhmann D.; Gadie A.; Gharooni S.; Guy J.; Hawkins E.; Jaroslawska A.; Joeghan S.; Johnson A.; Jones J.; Ianov-Vitanov R.; Iordanov C.; Martin J.; Monaghan A.; Ng- Cordell E.; O'Brien S.; O'Leary C.; Rennie J.; Santangelo A.; Simpson-Kent I.; Siugzdaite R.; Smith T.; Uh S.; Vedechkina M.; Woolgar F.; Zdorovtsova N.; Zhang M. (2024). Mapping neurodevelopmental diversity in executive function . * Cortex *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2023.11.021 Abstract : Executive function , an umbrella term used to describe the goal-directed regulation of thoughts , actions , and emotions , is an important dimension implicated in neurodiversity and established malleable predictor of multiple adult outcomes . Neurodevelopmental differences have been linked to both executive function strengths and weaknesses , but evidence for associations between specific profiles of executive function and specific neurodevelopmental conditions is mixed . In this exploratory study , we adopt an unsupervised machine learning approach (self- organising maps ), combined with k- means clustering to identify data - driven profiles of executive function in a transdiagnostic sample of 566 neurodivergent children aged 8–18 years old . We include measures designed to capture two distinct aspects of executive function : performance-based tasks designed to tap the state-like efficiency of cognitive skills under optimal conditions , and behaviour ratings suited to capturing the trait-like application of cognitive control in everyday contexts . Three profiles of executive function were identified : one had consistent difficulties across both types of assessments , while the other two had inconsistent profiles of predominantly rating- or predominantly task-based difficulties . Girls and children without a formal diagnosis were more likely to have an inconsistent profile of primarily task-based difficulties . Children with these different profiles had differences in academic achievement and mental health outcomes and could further be differentiated from a comparison group of children on both shared and profile- unique patterns of neural white matter organisation . Importantly , children's executive function profiles were not directly related to diagnostic categories or to dimensions of neurodiversity associated with specific diagnoses ( e.g ., hyperactivity , inattention , social communication ). These findings support the idea that the two types of executive function assessments provide non-redundant information related to children's neurodevelopmental differences and that they should not be used interchangeably . The findings advance our understanding of executive function profiles and their relationship to behavioural outcomes and neural variation in neurodivergent populations . © 2024 Elsevier Ltd --- Citation (APA 7th): Martinez-Lincoln A.; Fotidzis T.S.; Cutting L.E.; Price G.R.; Barquero L.A. (2023). Examination of common and unique brain regions for atypical reading and math : a meta- analysis . * Cerebral Cortex *. https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhad013 Abstract : The purpose of this study is to identify consistencies across functional neuroimaging studies regarding common and unique brain regions / networks for individuals with reading difficulties (RD) and math difficulties (MD) compared to typically developing (TD) individuals . A systematic search of the literature , utilizing multiple databases , yielded 116 functional magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography studies that met the criteria . Coordinates that directly compared TD with either RD or MD were entered into GingerALE (Brainmap.org). An activation likelihood estimate (ALE) meta- analysis was conducted to examine common and unique brain regions for RD and MD. Overall , more studies examined RD (n = 96) than MD (n = 20). Across studies , overactivation for reading and math occurred in the right insula and inferior frontal gyrus for atypically developing (AD ) &gt; TD comparisons , albeit in slightly different areas of these regions ; however , inherent threshold variability across imaging studies could diminish overlying regions . For TD &gt; AD comparisons , there were no similar or overlapping brain regions . Results indicate there were domain- specific differences for RD and MD; however , there were some similarities in the ancillary recruitment of executive functioning skills . Theoretical and practical implications for researchers and educators are discussed . © The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press . All rights reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Alabbad M.; Khan M.A.; Siddique N.; Hassan J.A.; Bashir S.; Abualait T. (2023). Early predictors in language-based learning disabilities : a bibliometric analysis . * Frontiers in Psychiatry *. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1229580 Abstract : Introduction : Language- based learning disabilities (LBLD) refers to a spectrum of neurodevelopmental-associated disorders that are characterized by cognitive and behavioral differences in comprehending , processing and utilizing spoken and / or written language . The focus of this work was on identifying early predictors of three main specific LBLD including dyslexia , dyscalculia , and dysgraphia . Methods : The Web of Science ( WoS ) was searched for literature related to ( neurocognitive , neurophysiological , and neuroimaging ) measurements used to identify early predictors of LBLD from 1991 to 25 October 2021. A retrospective bibliometric analysis was performed to analyze collaboration among countries , institutions , authors , publishing journals , reference co-citation patterns , keyword co-occurrence , keyword clustering , and burst keywords using Biblioanalytics software . Results : In total, 921 publications related to the identification of LBLD using ( neurocognitive , neurophysiological , and neuroimaging ) modalities were included . The data analysis shows a slow growth in research on the topic in the 90s and early 2000 and growing trend in recent years . The most prolific and cited journal is Neuroimage , followed by Neuropsychologia . The United States and Finland’s Universities Jyvaskyla and Helsinki are the leading country and institution in this field , respectively . “ Neuroimaging ,” “ brain ,” “fMRI,” “ cognitive predictor ,” “ comorbidity ,” “ cortical thickness ” were identified as hotspots and trends of ( neurocognitive , neurophysiological , and neuroimaging ) modalities in the identification of LBLD. Discussion : Early predictors of LBLDs would be useful as targets for specific prevention and intervention programs to be implemented at very young ages , which could have a significant clinical impact . A novel finding of neuroimaging predictors combined with neurocognitive and neuropsychological batteries may have implications for future research . Copyright © 2023 Alabbad , Khan , Siddique , Hassan, Bashir and Abualait . --- Citation (APA 7th): Eteng-Uket S. (2023). The Development, Validation , and Standardization of a New Tool : The Dyscalculia Test. * Numeracy *. https://doi.org/10.5038/1936-4660.16.2.1417 Abstract : This paper describes a study that focused on developing , validating and standardizing a dyscalculia test, henceforth called the Dyscalculia Test. Out of the 4,758,800 students in Nigeria's upper primary and junior secondary schools , l randomly drew a sample of 2340 students , using a multistage sampling procedure that applied various sampling techniques . For data collection , I used the Test of General Reasoning Ability and Paper 1 of the Mathematics Achievement Test section of the 2021 National Common Entrance Examination , as well as the Dyscalculia Test introduced in this paper , which was developed and standardized in stages . My analysis shows that the Dyscalculia Test items effectively zero in on three components : number sense, arithmetic operation , and working memory . Based on my findings , I recommend that school administrators and counselors adopt the Dyscalculia Test to assess students who may be having difficulty in mathematics and arithmetic for proper diagnosis . © 2023, National Numeracy Network. All rights reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Lamb S.; Krieger F.; Kuhn J.-T. (2023). Delayed development of basic numerical skills in children with developmental dyscalculia . * Frontiers in Psychology *. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1187785 Abstract : Research suggests that children with developmental dyscalculia (DD) have deficits in basic numerical skills . However , there is conflicting evidence on whether basic numerical skills in children with DD are qualitatively different from those in typically developing children (TD) or whether basic numerical skills development in children with DD is simply delayed . In addition , there are also competing hypotheses about deficits in basic numerical skills , assuming (1) a general deficit in representing numerosities ( Approximate Number System , ANS), (2) specific deficits in an object-based attentional system (Object Tracking System , OTS), or (3) deficits in accessing numerosities from symbols (Access Deficit , AD). Hence , the purpose of this study was to investigate whether deficits in basic numerical skills in children with DD are more indicative of a developmental delay or a dyscalculia-specific qualitative deviation and whether these deficits result from ( selective ) impairment of core cognitive systems involved in numerical processing . To address this , we tested 480 children (68 DD and 412 TD) in the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th grades with different paradigms for basic numerical skills ( subitizing , counting , magnitude comparison tasks , number sets , and number line estimation tasks ). The results revealed that DD children’s impairments did not indicate qualitatively different basic numerical skills but instead pointed to a specific developmental delay , with the exception of dot enumeration . This result was corroborated when comparing mathematical profiles of DD children in 4th grade and TD children in 2nd grade , suggesting that DD children were developmentally delayed and not qualitatively different . In addition , specific deficits in core markers of numeracy in children with DD supported the ANS deficit rather than the AD and OTS deficit hypothesis . Copyright © 2024 Lamb , Krieger and Kuhn . --- Citation (APA 7th): Li D.; Zhang X.; Zhang L. (2023). What Skills Could Distinguish Developmental Dyscalculia and Typically Developing Children : Evidence From a 2-Year Longitudinal Screening . * Journal of Learning Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1177/00222194221099674 Abstract : Developmental dyscalculia (DD) is a mathematics learning disorder that affects approximately 5% to 7% of the population . This study aimed to detect the underlying domain- specific and domain-general differences between DD and typically developing (TD) children . We recruited 9-year-old primary school children to form the DD group via a 2-year longitudinal screening process . In total, 75 DD children were screened from 1,657 children after the one -time screening , and 13 DD children were screened from 1,317 children through a consecutive 2-year longitudinal screening . In total, 13 experimental tasks were administered to assess their cognitive abilities to test the domain- specific magnitude representation hypothesis ( including symbolic and nonsymbolic magnitude comparisons ) and four alternative domain-general hypotheses ( including working memory , executive function , attention , and visuospatial processing ). The DD group had worse performance than the TD group on the number sense task , finger sense task , shifting task , and one-back task after both one -time and two-time screening . Logistic regressions further indicated the differences on the shifting task and the nonsymbolic magnitude comparison task could distinguish DD and TD children . Our findings suggest that domain- specific nonsymbolic magnitude representation and domain-general executive function both contribute to DD. Thus , both domain- specific and domain-general abilities will be necessary to investigate and to intervene in DD groups in the future . © Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2022. --- Citation (APA 7th): Saini S.S.; Kumar K.; Anand A. (2023). Unveiling the Neurobiology of Specific Learning Disorders : Insights from Cognitive Neuroscience . * Annals of Neurosciences *. https://doi.org/10.1177/09727531231211052 Abstract : [No abstract available ] --- Citation (APA 7th): Sewell A. (2022). Understanding and supporting learners with specific learning difficulties from a neurodiversity perspective : A narrative synthesis . *British Journal of Special Education *. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8578.12422 Abstract : Academic and practice-based research constructs specific learning difficulties as a collection of lifelong , within-person conditions that negatively affect learning and daily functioning . Investigation has historically adopted a medical model, specifically a neurodeficit perspective . Conversely , neurodiversity has emerged as a concept that seeks to understand these conditions as part of a person's identity , challenging cures and remediation , and promoting the importance of understanding those with diagnoses as possessing personal differences and strengths . This paper presents a narrative synthesis that collated and analysed current research and scholarship that sought to understand specific learning difficulties from a neurodiversity perspective , thus offering an original contribution to the existing literature . The review focused on three specific learning difficulties : dyslexia , dyspraxia and dyscalculia . Thematic analysis of papers included in the review led to the construction of three major themes , concluding that further neurodiverse research and scholarship is required . © 2022 The Authors . British Journal of Special Education published by John Wiley &amp; Sons Ltd on behalf of National Association for Special Educational Needs . --- Citation (APA 7th): Haberstroh S.; Schulte-Körne G. (2022). The Cognitive Profile of Math Difficulties : A Meta-Analysis Based on Clinical Criteria . * Frontiers in Psychology *. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.842391 Abstract : Math difficulties (MD) manifest across various domain- specific and domain-general abilities . However , the existing cognitive profile of MD is incomplete and thus not applicable in typical settings such as schools or clinics . So far, no review has applied inclusion criteria according to DSM or ICD, summarized domain- specific abilities or examined the validity of response time scores for MD identification . Based upon stringent clinical criteria , the current meta- analysis included 34 studies which compared cognitive performances of a group with MD (n = 680) and a group without MD (n = 1565). Criteria according to DSM and ICD were applied to identify MD ( percentile rank ≤ 16, age range 8–12 years , no comorbidities / low IQ). Effect sizes for 22 abilities were estimated and separated by their level and type of scoring (AC = accuracy , RT = response time). A cognitive profile of MD was identified , characterized by distinct weaknesses in: (a) computation ( calculation [AC], fact retrieval [AC]), (b) number sense ( quantity processing [AC], quantity-number linking [RT], numerical relations [AC]), and (c) visual-spatial short-term storage [AC]. No particular strength was found . Severity of MD, group differences in reading performance and IQ did not significantly moderate the results . Further analyses revealed that (a) effects are larger when dealing with numbers or number words than with quantities , (b) MD is not accompanied by any weakness in abilities typically assigned to reading , and (c) weaknesses in visual-spatial short-term storage emphasize the notion that number and space are interlinked . The need for high-quality studies investigating domain-general abilities is discussed . Copyright © 2022 Haberstroh and Schulte-Körne . --- Citation (APA 7th): Devi A.; Kavya G.; Santhanalakshmi K.; Senthilnayaki B. (2022). ICT Assesment Techniques and Tools for Screening Specific Learning Disabilities . *5th IEEE International Conference on Advances in Science and Technology , ICAST 2022*. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICAST55766.2022.10039596 Abstract : Recent decade has proved an increase in learning disabilities and directly impacts the education of children worldwide . This problem has to be addressed with a solution since they integrate into society for a bright future . Abnormalities in brain has an impact on memory , intellectual thinking and its balance is getting affected . Because of which achievements in academics and learning ability among children is observed to be lagging . Conventional methodologies involved in detection and interventions in Specific Learning Disability affects the controlling functions creating a barrier in education . The views provided enhances the development of cognitive skills and progress in academics . The tools provided in this work has observed academic progress of an individual . This survey focuses on various learning disabilities and their impact on education . The review findings focus on the tools and various solutions provided in the recent past , supporting the children suffering from learning disabilities . The studies have provided effective guidance for both affected students and teachers who contribute a major role in their progress . This survey provides an exploratory approach to discuss detection and diagnosis tools for three disabilities dyslexia , dysgraphia , and dyscalculia with its various impacts and possible solutions . It provides a broad view for future researchers to provide a better solution compared to existing ones . © 2022 IEEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Arumugam D.; Govindaraju K.; Tamilarasan A.K. (2022). AIIoT-Based Smart Framework for Screening Specific Learning Disabilities . *Machine Learning for Critical Internet of Medical Things : Applications and Use Cases *. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-80928-7_5 Abstract : For every person , the learning stage starts from their childhood . If any difficulty occurs at this stage , it becomes a lifelong problem. Some of the difficulties specifically occur in the processing of information so that these difficulties are called specific learning disabilities (SLD), such as dyslexia ( reading ), dyscalculia ( basic mathematical skills ), and dysgraphia ( writing / drawing ). The children with SLD need more time to learn and need support to develop their skill set, understand information , and mingle with other people . Different prediction tools and psychological trainers are available to predict SLD. However , these prediction methods and practices have drawbacks . To overcome this , it is necessary to perform early intervention before the age of five . In the proposed framework , the artificial intelligence (AI) with Internet of Things ( IoT )- integrated technology is adopted to predict the children with SLD. The proposed framework allows the children with and without SLD to take a test like a quiz with schoolteachers ’ assistance . The test consists of reading a word displayed on the screen , writing a simple mathematical problem on the screen , and interconnecting points on the touch screen . The datasets are collected for both children with and without SLD so as to train the AI using algorithms . Generally , there is a statistical relationship between reading time, writing time, and drawing time for children with and without SLD. Based on the timing relationship , the children with SLD can be predicted , and the results are analyzed using receiver operating characteristics (ROC) for effective diagnostic accuracy . The parents of children with SLD are informed about the chances of having SLD for their children . So , the children with SLD can be practiced according to their difficulty levels , thus making the SLD children to succeed in their academic as well as in career . © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022. --- Citation (APA 7th): Sanchez- Domenech I. (2022). Systematic review : cognitive profile of comorbid dyslexia and dyscalculia ; [ Revision sistematica : perfil cognitivo de dislexia y discalculia comorbidas ]. * Aula Abierta *. https://doi.org/10.17811/RIFIE.51.2.2022.201-210 Abstract : This paper explores the nature of the comorbidity of developmental dyslexia (DD) and dyscalculia (DC) and the shared and differentiating cognitive deficits of both disorders . The aim is to help school psycho-pedagogical assessments adjust to the complex and comorbid reality of developmental disorders that give rise to specific learning difficulties (DEA). To this end , a systematic review is carried out according to the PRISMA norms of empirical works , in the PubMed , Web of Science (WOS) and Scopus databases in the period 2009-2020, of articles that include mixed samples for the comparison of both common and differentiating cognitive deficits in each disorder . Differentiating deficits and those which overlap in the comorbid group are identified on an additive or interactive basis . The results are discussed in terms of their implications for school diagnosis and educational practice , highlighting the need to assess all modalities of working memory and the speed of processing and retrieval , as well as the preparation of specific guidance reports for teachers about the performance of DD and DC in the different curriculum areas . © 2022 Elsevier Doyma. All rights reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Agostini F.; Zoccolotti P.; Casagrande M. (2022). Domain-General Cognitive Skills in Children with Mathematical Difficulties and Dyscalculia : A Systematic Review of the Literature . *Brain Sciences *. https://doi.org/10.3390/brainsci12020239 Abstract : Mathematical performance implies a series of numerical and mathematical skills ( both innate and derived from formal training ) as well as certain general cognitive abilities that , if inadequate , can have a cascading effect on mathematics learning . These latter skills were the focus of the present systematic review . Method : The reviewing process was conducted according to the PRISMA statement . We included 46 studies comparing school-aged children’s performance with and without math difficulties in the following cognitive domains : Processing speed , phonological awareness , short - and long-term memory , executive functions , and attention . Results : The results showed that some general cognitive domains were compromised in children with mathematical difficulties ( i.e ., executive functions , attention , and processing speed ). Conclusions : These cognitive functions should be evaluated during the diagnostic process in order to better understand the child’s profile and propose individually tailored interventions . However , further studies should investigate the role of skills that have been poorly investigated to date ( e.g ., long-term memory and phonological awareness ). © 2022 by the authors . Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland . --- Citation (APA 7th): Hewapathirana C.; Abeysinghe K.; Maheshani P.; Liyanage P.; Krishara J.; Thelijjagoda S. (2021). A Mobile- Based Screening and Refinement System to Identify the Risk of Dyscalculia and Dysgraphia Learning Disabilities in Primary School Students . *2021 10th International Conference on Information and Automation for Sustainability , ICIAfS 2021*. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICIAfS52090.2021.9605998 Abstract : Learning Disability is a condition that has a direct effect on the brain and there is no cure or any identified medical treatments . Most of these cases remain undiagnosed due to the lack of awareness from their parents and teachers in underdeveloped countries like Sri Lanka. Mobile application-based solution ' Nana Shilpa ' was developed for the screening and intervention processes for the specific Learning Disabilities which are Verbal and Lexical Dyscalculia , Operational and Practognostic Dyscalculia , Letter Level Dysgraphia and Numeric Dysgraphia . Deep Learning with Machine Learning techniques is used in the screening process to provide a better solution . To detect the written letters / numbers , trained Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) achieved the accuracy of 92%, 99%, 99% for Verbal and Lexical Dyscalculia , Letter Level Dysgraphia and Number Dysgraphia respectively . The Machine Learning algorithms used for screening processes are Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Random Forest (RF). In the machine learning models , it is achieved the accuracy of 98%, 97% for Operational and Practognostic Dyscalculia and Number Dysgraphia respectively . In Sri Lanka, this has been recognized as an acceptable solution for screening and intervention via a mobile- based application for above mentioned four variants of learning disability conditions which are developed based on the gaming environment . © 2021 IEEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Bugden S.; Peters L.; Nosworthy N.; Archibald L.; Ansari D. (2021). Identifying Children with Persistent Developmental Dyscalculia from a 2-min Test of Symbolic and Nonsymbolic Numerical Magnitude Processing . * Mind , Brain, and Education *. https://doi.org/10.1111/mbe.12268 Abstract : Developmental dyscalculia (DD) is a mathematical learning disability that occurs in around 5%–7% of the population . At present , there are only a handful of screening tools to identify children that might be at risk of developing DD. The present study evaluated the classification accuracy of one such tool : The Numeracy Screener , a 2-min test of symbolic ( Arabic numerals ) and nonsymbolic ( dot arrays ) discrimination ability . A sample of 222 children who demonstrated persistent deficits (n = 55), inconsistent deficits (n = 51), or typical performance (n = 116) on standardized tests of math achievement over multiple observations was tested . The Numeracy Screener correctly classified children in all three groups . Notably , the symbolic condition has greater sensitivity in discriminating children with persistent DD from the other two groups . Screening tools that assess early numeracy skills may be promising for identifying children at risk for developing severe mathematical difficulties . © 2020 International Mind , Brain, and Education Society and Wiley Periodicals LLC --- Citation (APA 7th): Karagiannakis I.; Roussos P.; Polychroni F. (2021). Mathematical Profile Test: adaptation &amp; standardization in Greek . * Psychology *. https://doi.org/10.12681/psy_hps.29151 Abstract : The present study presents the adaptation and standardization of the Mathematical Profile Test ( MathProTest - Karagiannakis &amp; Nöel , 2020) in Greek , a theoretically - driven assessment tool covering a wide range of important mathematical skills . It is an autonomous online battery which can be administered individually or in groups . The MathPro test includes 18 tasks which assess numerical skills related either to specific cognitive domain ( core number ), or to general cognitive domains ( visual-spatial , memory , or reasoning ). This test was administered to a sample of 2371 primary school children ( Grades 1-6) which was recruited from seven geographical prefectures of Greece following quota sampling . According omega coefficient , the MathPro Test showed satisfactory internal consistency . Pearson’s coefficient between test- retest confirmed the repeated measures reliability . Finally , significant and stable correlation with teachers ’ evaluation on mathematical performance across all grades were found with children with difficulties in mathematics to be performed significantly lower according the results of the multiple one sample t-test. This all suggests that the MathPro test is a reliable tool sensitive in mathematical difficulties that can be used both in conducting large scale research and assessing in detail the mathematical profile of children with or without mathematical learning difficulties - dyscalculia for diagnosis purposes and focused intervention based on the individuals strengths and weaknesses in mathematics . © 2022, Ioannis Karagiannakis , Petros Roussos , Fotini Polychroni . --- Citation (APA 7th): Devi A.; Kavya G. (2021). Knowledge Based Analytical Tool for Identifying Children with Dyscalculia . * Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering *. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-33-4909-4_55 Abstract : Specific Learning Disability is a learning difficulty that has an impact on reading ( Dyslexia ), mathematical calculations ( Dyscalculia ), and drawing skill ( Dysgraphia ), among children . Out of these learning disabilities , the mathematical disability is a major problem for children to do minor calculations like counting numbers , remembering phone numbers and problem in understanding speed , time, distance etc ., which also affects their regular academic activities . Dyscalculia is a condition that lacks numerical skill needed for an individual that arises due to heredity or sometimes the brain development itself . Mostly children’s who are affected with dyscalculia seem to be good in other learning areas . Due to the lack of identification and assessment , these children severely affected when they are entering into higher grades . This may weaken their mental health condition and make them feel left out and low in confidence . Hence a knowledge-based tool is proposed to identify mathematical difficulties using machine learning decision tree algorithm . The entire proposed model is divided into two sections (i) Knowledge- based tool creation for dataset collection (ii) Decision tree classification . The main aim of this research work is to diagnose and detect the dyscalculia problem in the children at the earlier stage itself . © 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. --- Citation (APA 7th): Grant J.G.; Siegel L.S.; D'Angiulli A. (2020). From Schools to Scans : A Neuroeducational Approach to Comorbid Math and Reading Disabilities . * Frontiers in Public Health *. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2020.00469 Abstract : We bridge two analogous concepts of comorbidity , dyslexia-dyscalculia and reading-mathematical disabilities , in neuroscience and education , respectively . We assessed the cognitive profiles of 360 individuals ( mean age 25.79 ± 13.65) with disability in reading alone (RD group ), mathematics alone (MD group ) and both ( comorbidity : MDRD group ), with tests widely used in both psychoeducational and neuropsychological batteries . As expected , the MDRD group exhibited reading deficits like those shown by the RD group . The former group also exhibited deficits in quantitative reasoning like those shown by the MD group . However , other deficits related to verbal working memory and semantic memory were exclusive to the MDRD group . These findings were independent of gender , age , or socioeconomic and demographic factors . Through a systematic exhaustive review of clinical neuroimaging literature , we mapped the resulting cognitive profiles to correspondingly plausible neuroanatomical substrates of dyslexia and dyscalculia . In our resulting “ probing ” model, the complex set of domain- specific and domain-general impairments shown in the comorbidity of reading and mathematical disabilities are hypothesized as being related to atypical development of the left angular gyrus . The present neuroeducational approach bridges a long-standing transdisciplinary divide and contributes a step further toward improved early prediction , teaching and interventions for children and adults with combined reading and math disabilities . © Copyright © 2020 Grant, Siegel and D'Angiulli . --- Citation (APA 7th): Karagiannakis G.; Noël M.-P. (2020). Mathematical profile test: A preliminary evaluation of an online assessment for mathematics skills of children in grades 1-6. * Behavioral Sciences *. https://doi.org/10.3390/BS10080126 Abstract : The domain of numerical cognition still lacks an assessment tool that is theoretically driven and that covers a wide range of key numerical processes with the aim of identifying the learning profiles of children with difficulties in mathematics (MD) or dyscalculia . This paper is the first presentation of an online collectively administered tool developed to meet these goals . The Mathematical Profile Test ( MathPro Test) includes 18 subtests that assess numerical skills related to the core number domain or to the visual-spatial , memory or reasoning domains . The specific aim of this paper is to present the preliminary evaluation both of the sensitivity and the psychometric characteristics of the individual measures of the MathPro Test, which was administered to 622 primary school children ( grades 1-6) in Belgium . Performance on the subtests increased across all grades and varied along the level of difficulty of the items , supporting the sensitivity of the test. The MathPro Test also showed satisfactory internal consistency and significant and stable correlation with a standardized test in mathematics across all grades . In particular , the achievement in mathematics was strongly associated with the performance on the subtests assessing the reasoning and the visuospatial domains throughout all school grades , whereas associations with the core number and memory tasks were found mainly in the younger children . MD children performed significantly lower than their peers ; these differences in performance on the MathPro subtests also varied according to the school grades , informing us about the developmental changes of the weaknesses of children with MD. These results suggest that the MathPro Test is a very promising tool for conducting large scale research and for clinicians to sketch out the mathematical profile of children with MD or dyscalculia . © 2020 by the authors . Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland . This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/ licenses / by /4.0/). --- Citation (APA 7th): Miundy K.; Manoharan S.; Muniandy N. (2020). Preliminary identification of learners with dyscalculia in malaysian mainstream primary school as initial analysis for early intervention . *International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology *. https://doi.org/ Abstract : The rapid growth in technological impresses even the most visionary ones . Computer related products are available on our fingertip , it is impossible to imagine a world without it. The new terms that have hardly recognized a few decades of history like Internet and Virtual Reality (VR) are now parts of our lives . However , our hunger for evolution is not satisfied , we are still exploring for better ways to benefit from new technologies . The born of Augmented Reality (AR) is a promising area to insert computer assets into our lives . The basic idea of AR is to superimpose sense enhancements over a real-world environment . It is a perfect solution as it combines the advantages of both virtuality and reality . AR is mostly used in adding computer generated visual enhancements into real life applications . It is clear that AR will be in our lives more and in the near future , it will be indispensable from our daily life. In the most recent years , AR had inspired into the evolution of children with learning disabilities . Thus , the motive of this study conducted to identify learners who are suffering from dyscalculia through screening instrument as the based of early intervention . The methodology used in this study was based on two screening instrument , Mathematics Learning Ability (MLA) and Mathematics Learning Performances (MLP) conducted on students . Findings also showed that the students had difficulties on memory , abstraction , sequencing processing , motor and visual perception . Findings on the plausible assistive digital technology , found the visual-based fusion technology such as Augmented Reality (AR), would enable dyscalculia learners to undergo an experiential learning approach that would make learning mathematics meaningful . The aim of this study is to emphasize importance of AR in the life of learning disabilities children . Further , our study not only extends the capabilities of the current situation , but also presents a need of AR application through visual based fusion in a user friendly environment for dyscalculia learners to increase engagement in learning of mathematics . © 2020 SERSC. --- Citation (APA 7th): Keong W.K.; Pang V.; Eng C.K.; Keong T.C. (2020). A framework for diagnosing dyscalculia . *ASM Science Journal *. https://doi.org/10.32802/ASMSCJ.2020.SM26(2.1) Abstract : This paper outlines the development of mathematical items which evolves from making sense of mathematics through perception , operation , and reason . There are three main constructs in this framework , and it involves seven tests namely simple reaction time, short term memory , number sense, matching Items , dot enumeration , number comparison and arithmetic . This study is concerned with how a group of students struggle with basic numerical skills which may be caused by dyscalculia . One of the most important contributions of this study , in addition to its wider theoretical and practical applications , is that it has come out with a set of standardized instruments which is called the Malaysian Dyscalculia Instrument (MDI) for primary school students . This tool could be further used widely in the fields of psychology and education , especially special education and particularly research studies related to education . © 2020. --- Citation (APA 7th): Wong T.T.-Y.; Chan W.W.L. (2019). Identifying children with persistent low math achievement : The role of number-magnitude mapping and symbolic numerical processing . *Learning and Instruction *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2018.11.006 Abstract : Although an increasing number of research studies have investigated the cognitive deficits related to difficulties in learning mathematics , little is known about whether these cognitive deficits longitudinally predict low mathematics achievement over time. The current 6-year longitudinal study was conducted to address this issue . A sample of 101 students was tested on various numerical and cognitive competencies when they were in kindergarten and in Grade 1. They were then followed until they were in Grade 6, and their mathematics achievement was assessed bi-annually . A group of persistent low mathematics achievers (PLA) who scored consistently below the 25th percentile was identified . This group of PLA showed difficulties in most of the numerical tasks as early as kindergarten . More importantly , three of the early predictors correctly identified 79% of the PLAs . The current findings provide valuable information concerning the core cognitive deficits underlying difficulties in learning mathematics as well as an important tool for educators for identifying children who are at risk of persistent math learning difficulties in the elementary school years . © 2018 Elsevier Ltd --- Citation (APA 7th): Biancardi A.; Cerracchio A.; Francese R.; Nicoletti C.; Risi M.; Procida M. (2019). DyscalcTest Generation Environment: Supporting the Clinician in the Creation , Delivery and Evaluation of Dyscalculia Tests . * Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Visualisation *. https://doi.org/10.1109/IV.2019.00070 Abstract : Dyscalculia should be detected in the third primary class , but in many cases this disturb is diagnosed in later ages . In this paper we present a tool for supporting the clinician in the generation of responsive web- based tests for individuating people with disorder in basic numerical and arithmetic skills . Tests are created by combining specific kinds of questions which are delivered to a sample of people belonging to a specific target . The tool provides also support in the data analysis and in setting the alert thresholds for the selected user target . Results may be graphically visualized in summarized and single user way . Once the setting process is terminated , the test may be adopted . A case study on adult people is also presented . © 2019 IEEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Miundy K.; Zaman H.B.; Nordin A.; Ng K.H. (2019). Early intervention through identification of learners with dyscalculia as initial analysis to design AR assistive learning application . * Lecture Notes in Computer Science ( including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics )* . https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34032-2_11 Abstract : Learners who suffer from dyscalculia are unable to perform in mathematics . Plausible Assistive digital technology that are visual-based fusion technology , particularly Augmented Reality (AR) application , can assist dyscalculia learners perform arithmetic tasks such as addition , subtraction , multiplication , and division more effectively . This paper highlights early intervention through identification of dyscalculia learners in a national elementary school . The identification of dyscalculia learners was done through a screening instrument that combined of Mathematics Learning Ability (MLA) and Mathematics Learning Performance (MLP). The findings categorised the learners based on five main difficulties namely , memory , abstraction , sequencing processing , motor, and visual perception . However , the visual perception category showed most significant difficulty faced by dyscalculia learners in learning mathematics . The findings were used as initial analysis for Systems Requirement Specifications (SRS) that would be used to design and develop a visual-based fusion technology AR application for dyscalculia learners . © Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019. --- Citation (APA 7th): Patricia B.-L.; Sara R.-C. (2019). Dyscalculia : Clinical Manifestations , Evaluation and Diagnosis . Current Perspectives of Educational Intervention . * RELIEVE - Revista Electronica de Investigacion y Evaluacion Educativa *. https://doi.org/10.7203/relieve.25.1.10125 Abstract : Learning difficulties and learning disorders are very frequent in schools nowadays , and they have been increasing in the field of mathematics . Such difficulties tend to be associated with other disorders such as dyslexia or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The present article aims at deepening our understanding , definition and detection of dyscalculia , along with reviewing current educational treatments . Since 1990, concerns about learning difficulties in the classroom have been made explicit in policies such as the Spanish Law on the General Ordering of the Education System (LOGSE). Likewise , the indicators , symptoms , and prevalence of dyscalculia have been gathered since the publication of the DSM-IV and the ICD-10. Nonetheless , its detection , identification and intervention are below expectation . Features such as the knowledge of its underlying neurobiological basis are fundamental for a posterior psychopedagogical approach . We conclude , first , that we can only rely on a few specific tools for its detection . Second, we highlight the relevance of the detection of its risk factors . Finally , regarding current perspectives of treatment , early detection and the interdisciplinary nature of the interventions are supported © 2019. All Rights Reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Miundy K.; Zaman H.B.; Nordin A.; Ng K.H. (2019). Screening test on dyscalculia learners to develop a suitable augmented reality (AR) assistive learning application . * Malaysian Journal of Computer Science *. https://doi.org/10.22452/mjcs.sp2019no1.7 Abstract : Dyscalculia refers to persistent difficulty in learning Mathematics without being aware of the condition . Such a condition is not easily detected and most of them would be left undetected , apart from being labelled as lazy or slow learners . Early delay places them behind in acquiring other fundamental areas of Mathematics . As such , this study identified learners suffering from dyscalculia ( also known as acalculia ) through screening tests for early intervention . The methodology used in this study was based on two screening tests (ST1 and ST2) conducted on learners to identify ' student areas ' or their specific type of dyscalculia using the Dyscalculia Screening Test Instrument (DSTI) and verification of the specific types made by selected expert teachers , respectively . An early identification study on suitable assistive learning technology for these learners was performed . Prior studies reported that suitable assistive technological tools can improve the learning process of those with learning disability (LD). The findings displayed the effectiveness of the screening tests (ST1 and ST2) in detecting learners with dyscalculia , particularly in areas related to memory , abstraction , sequencing processing , motor, and visual perception . The results derived from plausible assistive digital technology revealed that visual-based fusion technology , such as Augmented Reality (AR), exposed the dyscalculia learners to experiential learning approach that made learning Mathematics meaningful . © Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology . --- Citation (APA 7th): Ciechalska D.; Gut M. (2018). Computer-assisted versus paper-pencil methods for assessing children's mathematical skills ; [ Komputerowe versus papierowe narzędzia oceny umiejętności matematycznych dzieci ]. * Neuropsychiatria i Neuropsychologia *. https://doi.org/10.5114/nan.2018.81251 Abstract : Nowadays the development and use of the computerised variant of methods is an obvious part of research and diagnosis , which is widely used in psychological practice . Will these computer-assisted tools used for this purpose replace the traditional paper-pencil tools ? What are their advantages and disadvantages in comparison to traditional methods ? What could such tools never provide to psychologists ? The computerised tests are commonly used for assessment of a broad range of cognitive functions as well as capacities , among others for measurement of mathematical competencies and for diagnosis of deficiencies observed in the case of number processing . It allows us to measure the disorder's indices in a precise way , which is unobtainable in the case of paper-pencil tools ( or it is possible only to a limited extent ). This paper presents the critical review of several selected methods , which are used for assessment of children's mathematical abilities . Here we describe both traditional paper-pencil tasks as well as computer-assisted ones . The aim of this review is to compare these methods in terms of their reliability , advantages and disadvantages , as well as the details of the data provided by both type of tools used for the measurement of mathematical skills in the case of normal development and in the case of cognitive deficits ( e.g . dyscalculia ). © 2018 Termedia Publishing House Ltd. All Rights Reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Cangöz B.; Olkun S.; Altun A.; Salman F. (2018). Comparing two cut-off based criteria while investigating the discriminatory characteristics of a tablet- based dyscalculia screening battery for 5–9 age group . * Noropsikiyatri Arsivi *. https://doi.org/10.5152/npa.2017.19255 Abstract : Introduction : Math skills are essential in academic , occupational , and scientific areas as well as in daily life activities . There are two existing models in screening dyscalculia : IQ- Achievement Discrepancy Model (DM), and Response to Instruction (RTI) model. In these models , two different cut-off based criteria ( being 1 or 2 standard deviation below within their age groups , and being in the lower 5–10% group ) are mainly used . The main purpose of this study is to compare these two different cut-off criteria , based on three sub-tests of Tablet-PC Based Dyscalculia Screening Battery (TAB-DSB) ( Canonic Dot Counting -CDC, Symbolic Number Comparison -SNC and Mental Number Line -MNL). It is expected to show which criteria would yield the best discrimination in differentiating students who have dyscalculia tendency from the rest of the students in three sub-tests . Methods : The participants of the study included 316 volunteer 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year elementary school students . Results and Conclusion : The results indicated that CDC, SNC, and MNL (MNL1, MNL2) tasks failed to discriminate the groups when the standard deviation rule ( below , above , and within 1 standard deviation ) was taken into consideration . On the other hand , these tasks were found to be effective in discriminating the groups when the lower 10% and the upper groups were compared . © 2016 by Turkish Association of Neuropsychiatry . --- Citation (APA 7th): Clarke B.; Shanley L.; Kosty D.; Baker S.K.; Cary M.S.; Fien H.; Smolkowski K. (2018). Investigating the incremental validity of cognitive variables in early mathematics screening . *School Psychology Quarterly *. https://doi.org/10.1037/spq0000214 Abstract : The purpose of this study was to investigate the incremental validity of a set of domain general cognitive measures added to a traditional screening battery of early numeracy measures . The sample consisted of 458 kindergarten students of whom 285 were designated as severely at-risk for mathematics difficulty . Hierarchical multiple regression results indicated that Wechsler Abbreviated Scales of Intelligence (WASI) Matrix Reasoning and Vocabulary subtests , and Digit Span Forward and Backward measures explained a small , but unique portion of the variance in kindergarten students ' mathematics performance on the Test of Early Mathematics Ability -Third Edition (TEMA-3) when controlling for Early Numeracy Curriculum Based Measurement (EN-CBM) screening measures ( Rchange 2 = .01). Furthermore , the incremental validity of the domain general cognitive measures was relatively stronger for the severely at-risk sample . We discuss results from the study in light of instructional decision-making and note the findings do not justify adding domain general cognitive assessments to mathematics screening batteries . © 2017 American Psychological Association . --- Citation (APA 7th): Jayachandran N.; Thomas I.; Lekshmi K. (2018). Identifying Developmental Dyscalculia : Perspective of primary school teachers . * Journal of the Indian Academy of Applied Psychology *. https://doi.org/ Abstract : Developmental Dyscalculia (DD) is a topic of much concern , as Mathematics is a subject that has much applicability in our daily life and which in turn limits educational attainment and affects the income level of a person . Studies indicate that early identification and remediation can overcome DD to a large extend . One way to ensure early identification of DD is to make sure that teachers in the general education stream have adequate knowledge about the condition and have the necessary skills for the identification of these children . The present study aims to understand the primary school teacher's knowledge about DD, the possibility of additional assistance given to these children and its effectiveness by employing a Focus Group Discussion . The results evolved indicated that teachers are aware of the difficulties faced by these children and the remediations they employ are effective to a certain extent . © Journal of the Indian Academy of Applied Psychology . --- Citation (APA 7th): Schwenk C.; Sasanguie D.; Kuhn J.-T.; Kempe S.; Doebler P.; Holling H. (2017). ( Non -) symbolic magnitude processing in children with mathematical difficulties : a meta- analysis . * Research in Developmental Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2017.03.003 Abstract : Symbolic and non-symbolic magnitude representations , measured by digit or dot comparison tasks , are assumed to underlie the development of arithmetic skills . The comparison distance effect (CDE) has been suggested as a hallmark of the preciseness of mental magnitude representations . It implies that two magnitudes are harder to discriminate when the numerical distance between them is small , and may therefore differ in children with mathematical difficulties (MD), i.e ., low mathematical achievement or dyscalculia . However , empirical findings on the CDE in children with MD are heterogeneous , and only few studies assess both symbolic and non-symbolic skills . This meta- analysis therefore integrates 44 symbolic and 48 non-symbolic response time (RT) outcomes reported in 19 studies (N = 1,630 subjects , aged 6–14 years ). Independent of age , children with MD show significantly longer mean RTs than typically achieving controls , particularly on symbolic ( Hedges ' g = 0.75; 95% CI [0.51; 0.99]), but to a significantly lower extent also on non-symbolic (g = 0.24; 95% CI [0.13; 0.36]) tasks . However , no group differences were found for the CDE. Extending recent work , these meta- analytical findings on children with MD corroborate the diagnostic importance of magnitude comparison speed in symbolic tasks . By contrast , the validity of CDE measures in assessing MD is questioned . © 2017 Elsevier Ltd --- Citation (APA 7th): Schelke M.W.; Shapiro S.D.; Hackett K.; Chen J.; Simchon-Steinhof S.; Ganzer C.A.; Isaacson R.S.; Tamboer P.; Van Vliet E.; Assuras S.; Chiang G.; Seifan A. (2017). Diagnosis of developmental learning and attention disorders in adults : A review of clinical modalities . * Neurology Psychiatry and Brain Research *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.npbr.2016.11.006 Abstract : ADHD and the specific learning disorders of dyslexia and dyscalculia form a class of neurodevelopmental disorders which are often undiagnosed in childhood , especially for adults born before these disorders were recognized . Recent research has revealed that the symptoms of these disorders can persist across the lifespan and cause substantial disabilities in work , school , and personal life. Moreover , these disorders may influence how neurodegenerative disease symptoms and pathology begin and spread. Despite the proliferation of diagnostic instruments for assessing ADHD and learning disorder during childhood , however , availability of validated modalities for the adult population is significantly limited . This is a critical research gap given the considerable adult disease burden ( up to 6% of the population ), the differences between adult and pediatric presentation , and the fact that the most promising treatments for neurodegenerative diseases will be initiated in minimally symptomatic adults . In this review , we describe the available self- report scales , neuropsychological tests , and structural imaging and genetic biomarkers that may allow accurate identification of adults with ADHD, dyslexia , and dyscalculia . Discussion of these instruments may provide clinicians with a set of tools to reduce cognitive disability in educational , occupational , and medical populations . © 2016 Elsevier GmbH --- Citation (APA 7th): Reeve R.A.; Waldecker C. (2017). Evidence-based assessment and intervention for Dyscalculia and maths disabilities in school psychology . * Handbook of Australian School Psychology : Integrating International Research , Practice , and Policy *. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-45166-4_10 Abstract : [No abstract available ] --- Citation (APA 7th): Sousa P.; Dias P.C.; Cadime I. (2017). Predictors of primary school teachers ’ knowledge about developmental dyscalculia . * European Journal of Special Needs Education *. https://doi.org/10.1080/08856257.2016.1216635 Abstract : Developmental dyscalculia is a specific learning disability that is described as a heterogeneous and persistent cognitive disorder . Given the need to detect and intervene as early as possible to minimise its effects , teachers ’ knowledge about symptoms , characteristics and effective intervention strategies in dyscalculia is essential . Given the lack of research about this topic and measures to evaluate teachers ’ knowledge , this study aims to present a literature-based measure to evaluate knowledge about developmental dyscalculia and to investigate the predictors of this type of knowledge . Data were collected from a sample of 175 primary school teachers . The measure presented adequate psychometric properties . Teachers ’ personal characteristics such as age and gender did not predict their knowledge about dyscalculia . Being a Special Education teacher predicted a higher knowledge of intervention strategies in dyscalculia and having heard about dyscalculia predicted higher knowledge about not only intervention strategies but also dyscalculia characteristics . The data are discussed , and suggestions for further studies are presented . © 2016 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &amp; Francis Group . --- Citation (APA 7th): Mutlu Y.; Akgün L. (2017). A model proposal for diagnosis of mathematics learning difficulty : Multi- filter model; [Matematik öğrenme güçlüğünü tanılamada yeni bir model önerisi: çoklu süzgeç modeli]. * Elementary Education Online*. https://doi.org/10.17051/ilkonline.2017.330248 Abstract : Mathematics learning difficulties (MLD) is a specific learning disability which induviduals have the insufficiency of the acquisition of arithmetic skills . The definition , causes and prevalence rates of MLD are debate and there isn’t any available agreed method in diagnosing MLD. In this study , the strengths and weaknesses of diagnostic methods of MLD examined and after analysing the definitions of MLD was determined some inclusive and exclusive criteria . In the light of these criteria Multi Filter Model (MFM) was designed . Teachers ' views , Dyscalculia Preliminary Assessment Test, Dyscalculia Screening Tool , Student Recognition Form and WISC-R intelligence test were used as a filter in MFM. Three students were determined by using MFM. The practice verify to get more robust results using MFM in determining students with MLD. © 2017, Ankara University . All rights reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Peake C.; Jiménez J.E.; Rodríguez C. (2017). Data - driven heterogeneity in mathematical learning disabilities based on the triple code model. * Research in Developmental Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2017.10.005 Abstract : Many classifications of heterogeneity in mathematical learning disabilities (MLD) have been proposed over the past four decades , however no empirical research has been conducted until recently , and none of the classifications are derived from Triple Code Model (TCM) postulates . The TCM proposes MLD as a heterogeneous disorder , with two distinguishable profiles : a representational subtype and a verbal subtype . A sample of elementary school 3rd to 6th graders was divided into two age cohorts (3rd − 4th grades , and 5th − 6th grades ). Using data - driven strategies , based on the cognitive classification variables predicted by the TCM, our sample of children with MLD clustered as expected : a group with representational deficits and a group with number-fact retrieval deficits . In the younger group , a spatial subtype also emerged , while in both cohorts a non-specific cluster was produced whose profile could not be explained by this theoretical approach . © 2017 Elsevier Ltd --- Citation (APA 7th): Siem Knudsen G. (2016). Statistical classification of dyscalculia symptoms using smartphones and behaviour of magnocellular cells . * Studies in Health Technology and Informatics *. https://doi.org/10.3233/978-1-61499-633-0-128 Abstract : [No abstract available ] --- Citation (APA 7th): Morgan P.L.; Farkas G.; Hillemeier M.M.; Maczuga S. (2016). Who Is At Risk for Persistent Mathematics Difficulties in the United States ?. * Journal of Learning Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022219414553849 Abstract : We analyzed two nationally representative , longitudinal data sets of U.S. children to identify risk factors for persistent mathematics difficulties (PMD). Results indicated that children from low socioeconomic households are at elevated risk of PMD at 48 and 60 months of age , as are children with cognitive delays , identified developmental delays or disabilities , and vocabulary difficulties . In contrast , children attending preschool either in Head Start or non – Head Start classrooms are at initially lower risk of PMD. Kindergarten- aged children experiencing either low socioeconomic status or mathematics difficulties are at greatest risk for PMD across third , fifth , and eighth grades . Also at risk for PMD between third and eighth grades are children displaying reading difficulties or inattention and other learning-related behaviors problems , children with identified disabilities , and those who are retained . Educationally relevant and potentially malleable factors for decreasing young children’s risk for PMD may include increasing children’s access to preschool , decreasing their risk of experiencing vocabulary or reading difficulties , and avoiding use of grade retention . © 2014, © Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2014. --- Citation (APA 7th): Pieters S.; Roeyers H.; Rosseel Y.; Van Waelvelde H.; Desoete A. (2015). Identifying Subtypes Among Children With Developmental Coordination Disorder and Mathematical Learning Disabilities , Using Model- Based Clustering. * Journal of Learning Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022219413491288 Abstract : A relationship between motor and mathematical skills has been shown by previous research . However , the question of whether subtypes can be differentiated within developmental coordination disorder (DCD) and / or mathematical learning disability (MLD) remains unresolved . In a sample of children with and without DCD and / or MLD, a data - driven model- based clustering was used to identify subgroups of individuals with relatively homogeneous profiles on measures associated with motor and mathematical skills . One subgroup of children with motor problems was found based on motor variables . Based on mathematical variables , two clinical clusters were found : a subtype with number fact retrieval problems and a subtype with procedural calculation problems . Clustering with motor and mathematical skills revealed two clinical clusters : a cluster with number fact retrieval as well as procedural calculation problems and below average motor and visual -motor integration skills . A second cluster of children had only procedural calculation and visual -motor problems . Our results raise questions about the usefulness of placing children who have below average mathematical skills into a single diagnostic category . Furthermore , we inform ongoing debates about the overlap between DCD and MLD, as below average motor skills were found in both MLD subgroups , although a different motor profile is linked to a different mathematical profile. © Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2013. --- Citation (APA 7th): Wong T.T.-Y.; Ho C.S.-H.; Tang J. (2014). Identification of children with mathematics learning disabilities ( MLDs ) using latent class growth analysis . * Research in Developmental Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2014.07.015 Abstract : The traditional way of identifying children with mathematics learning disabilities ( MLDs ) using the low-achievement method with one-off assessment suffers from several limitations ( e.g ., arbitrary cutoff , measurement error , lacking consideration of growth ). The present study attempted to identify children with MLD using the latent growth modelling approach , which minimizes the above potential problems . Two hundred and ten Chinese-speaking children were classified into five classes based on their arithmetic performance over 3 years . Their performance on various number-related cognitive measures was also assessed . A potential MLD class was identified , which demonstrated poor achievement over the 3 years and showed smaller improvement over time compared with the average-achieving class . This class had deficits in all number-related cognitive skills , hence supporting the number sense deficit hypothesis . On the other hand , another low-achieving class , which showed little improvement in arithmetic skills over time, was also identified . This class had an average cognitive profile but a low SES. Interventions should be provided to both low-achieving classes according to their needs . © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. --- Citation (APA 7th): Everatt J.; Elbeheri G.; Brooks P. (2013). Dyscalculia : Research and practice on identification and intervention across languages . * The Routledge International Companion to Educational Psychology *. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203809402-44 Abstract : In this chapter , the term ‘ dyscalculia ’ will be used to refer to individuals who have severe and persistent problems with mathematics . The term will be described as synonymous with mathematics learning disability (MLD) and , from this perspective , focuses on children in educational contexts who show difficulties with learning mathematics - in contrast to those who may acquire mathematics difficulties in later life. Such individuals with dyscalculia typically show difficulties understanding simple number concepts , poor intuitive grasp of numbers , problems learning number facts and procedures , and evidence of performing mathematics problems mechanically and without confidence . In the present chapter , dyscalculia will be considered as related to an underlying problem with fully understanding basic concepts in mathematics ( such as an understanding of number - examples can be found in Figure 31.1). Although this view is not universal , it is similar to that which has been used in the UK, North America , and elsewhere ( e.g . see Butterworth and Yeo 2004; Chinn and Ashcroft 2007; Geary 2004; see also Ramaa 2000, for a discussion of dyscalculia work in India ). © 2014 Andrew J. Holliman . --- Citation (APA 7th): Branum - Martin L.; Fletcher J.M.; Stuebing K.K. (2013). Classification and Identification of Reading and Math Disabilities : The Special Case of Comorbidity . * Journal of Learning Disabilities *. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022219412468767 Abstract : Much of learning disabilities research relies on categorical classification frameworks that use psychometric tests and cut points to identify children with reading or math difficulties . However , there is increasing evidence that the attributes of reading and math learning disabilities are dimensional , representing correlated continua of severity . We discuss issues related to categorical and dimensional approaches to reading and math disabilities , and their comorbid associations , highlighting problems with the use of cut points and correlated assessments . Two simulations are provided in which the correlational structure of a set of cognitive and achievement data are simulated from a single population with no categorical structures . The simulations produce profiles remarkably similar to reported profile differences , suggesting that the patterns are a product of the cut point and the correlational structure of the data . If dimensional approaches better fit the attributes of learning disability , new conceptualizations and better methods to identification and intervention may emerge , especially for comorbid associations of reading and math difficulties . © Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2012. --- Citation (APA 7th): Devine A.; Soltész F.; Nobes A.; Goswami U.; Szucs D. (2013). Gender differences in developmental dyscalculia depend on diagnostic criteria . *Learning and Instruction *. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2013.02.004 Abstract : Developmental dyscalculia (DD) is a learning difficulty specific to mathematics learning . The prevalence of DD may be equivalent to that of dyslexia , posing an important challenge for effective educational provision . Nevertheless , there is no agreed definition of DD and there are controversies surrounding cutoff decisions , specificity and gender differences . In the current study , 1004 British primary school children completed mathematics and reading assessments . The prevalence of DD and gender ratio were estimated in this sample using different criteria . When using absolute thresholds , the prevalence of DD was the same for both genders regardless of the cutoff criteria applied , however gender differences emerged when using a mathematics-reading discrepancy definition . Correlations between mathematics performance and the control measures selected to identify a specific learning difficulty affect both prevalence estimates and whether a gender difference is in fact identified . Educational implications are discussed . © 2013. --- Citation (APA 7th): Kiechl-Kohlendorfer U.; Ralser E.; Pupp Peglow U.; Pehboeck-Walser N.; Fussenegger B. (2013). Early risk predictors for impaired numerical skills in 5-year-old children born before 32weeks of gestation . * Acta Paediatrica , International Journal of Paediatrics *. https://doi.org/10.1111/apa.12036 Abstract : Aim To unravel risk predictors for impaired numerical skills at 5years of age in a population-based cohort of very preterm infants . Methods : Between January 2003 and August 2006, we prospectively enrolled all infants born in Tyrol with &lt;32weeks of gestation . A total of 161 of 223 preterm infants ( participation rate 72.2%) had a detailed examination at 5years of age including cognitive assessment (Hannover-Wechsler Intelligence Test for preschool children , third edition (HAWIVA-III) or Snijders-Oomen Nonverbal Intelligence Test (SON-R)). In 135 children , numerical abilities were assessed with the dyscalculia test TEDI-MATH. The association between pre - and postnatal factors and impaired numerical skills was analyzed by means of logistic regression analysis . Results : Dyscalculia test showed delayed numerical skills (TEDI-MATH Sum T- score &lt;40) in 27 of 135 children tested (20.0%). In half of the children tested , delayed numerical abilities were related to lower IQ scores . Smoking in pregnancy , intracerebral haemorrhage and chronic lung disease were predictive of delayed numerical skills at 5years of age in the multivariate analysis . Conclusion : This study identified risk predictors for impaired numerical skills in preterm infants . Our data support the role of both pre - and perinatal factors in the evolution of mathematical deficits . © 2012 The Author(s)/ Acta Pædiatrica . --- Citation (APA 7th): Landerl K. (2013). Development of numerical processing in children with typical and dyscalculic arithmetic skills -a longitudinal study . * Frontiers in Psychology *. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00459 Abstract : Numerical processing has been demonstrated to be closely associated with arithmetic skills , however , our knowledge on the development of the relevant cognitive mechanisms is limited . The present longitudinal study investigated the developmental trajectories of numerical processing in 42 children with age-adequate arithmetic development and 41 children with dyscalculia over a 2-year period from beginning of Grade 2, when children were 7; 6 years old , to beginning of Grade 4. A battery of numerical processing tasks ( dot enumeration , non-symbolic and symbolic comparison of one - and two- digit numbers , physical comparison , number line estimation ) was given five times during the study ( beginning and middle of each school year ). Efficiency of numerical processing was a very good indicator of development in numerical processing while within-task effects remained largely constant and showed low long-term stability before middle of Grade 3. Children with dyscalculia showed less efficient numerical processing reflected in specifically prolonged response times . Importantly , they showed consistently larger slopes for dot enumeration in the subitizing range , an untypically large compatibility effect when processing two- digit numbers , and they were consistently less accurate in placing numbers on a number line . Thus , we were able to identify parameters that can be used in future research to characterize numerical processing in typical and dyscalculic development . These parameters can also be helpful for identification of children who struggle in their numerical development . © 2013 Landerl . --- Citation (APA 7th): Mórocz I.A.; Janoos F.; Van Gelderen P.; Manor D.; Karni A.; Breznitz Z.; Von Aster M.; Kushnir T.; Shalev R. (2012). Time- resolved and spatio -temporal analysis of complex cognitive processes and their role in disorders like developmental dyscalculia . *International Journal of Imaging Systems and Technology *. https://doi.org/10.1002/ima.22009 Abstract : The aim of this article is to report on the importance and challenges of a time- resolved and spatio -temporal analysis of fMRI data from complex cognitive processes and associated disorders using a study on developmental dyscalculia (DD). Participants underwent fMRI while judging the incorrectness of multiplication results , and the data were analyzed using a sequence of methods , each of which progressively provided more a detailed picture of the spatio -temporal aspect of this disease . Healthy subjects and subjects with DD performed alike behaviorally , though they exhibited parietal disparities using traditional " voxel-based " group analyses . Further and more detailed differences , however , surfaced with a "time- resolved " examination of the neural responses during the experiment . While performing intergroup comparisons , a third group of subjects with dyslexia but with no arithmetic difficulties was included to test the specificity of the analysis and strengthen the statistical base with overall 58 subjects . Surprisingly , the analysis showed a functional dissimilarity during an initial reading phase for the group of dyslexic but otherwise normal subjects , with respect to controls , though only numerical digits and no alphabetic characters were presented . Thus , our results suggest that "time- resolved multivariate " analysis of complex experimental paradigms has the ability to yield powerful new clinical insights about abnormal brain function . Similarly , a detailed compilation of aberrations in the functional cascade may have much greater potential to delineate the core processing problems in mental disorders . © 2012 Wiley Periodicals , Inc . --- Citation (APA 7th): Maricle D.E.; Psimas -Fraser L.; Muenke R.C.; Miller D.C. (2012). Assessing and Intervening with Children with Math Disorders . *Best Practices in School Neuropsychology : Guidelines for Effective Practice , Assessment , and Evidence-Based Intervention *. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118269855.ch21 Abstract : [No abstract available ] --- Citation (APA 7th): Desmet L.; Mussolin C. (2012). Assessing mathematical learning difficulties ; [ Évaluer les troubles d'apprentissage en mathématique ]. * ANAE - Approche Neuropsychologique des Apprentissages chez l'Enfant *. https://doi.org/ Abstract : Our understanding of developmental dyscalculia has significantly improved during last decades . However , some children were sometimes erroneously classified as dyscalculic . Here, we recall the criteria to classify a child as dyscalculic and review the characteristics of the some standardized batteries as well as their weaknesses . We stress the need to correctly interpret the results obtained in these tests . Finally , different potential precursors of developmental dyscalculia are proposed with regard to current research . © copyright Anae . --- Citation (APA 7th): Mundia L. (2012). The assessment of math learning difficulties in a primary grade-4 child with high support needs : Mixed methods approach . *International Electronic Journal of Elementary Education *. https://doi.org/ Abstract : This mixed-methods study incorporated elements of survey , case study and action research approaches in investigating an at-risk child . Using an in- take interview , a diagnostic test, an error analysis , and a think-aloud clinical interview , the study identified the child's major presenting difficulties . These included : inability to use the four arithmetic operations ( addition , subtraction , multiplication , division ) efficiently ; not understanding the relationship between units , tens and hundreds ; using any two of the four arithmetic processes (+ , - , ×, ÷) in combination within one operation ; treating each column as a separate problem; place value problems / wrong alignment of numbers ; poor eye-hand coordination leading to dysgraphia ; and memory lapses . The other problems that became apparent through this investigation and implied in the findings include possible causal factors such as dyscalculia , dyslexia , low self- esteem , low self- efficacy , and math anxiety . Further assessment , intervention and research are recommended to address problems of this vulnerable child . © IEJEE. --- Citation (APA 7th): Kaufmann L.; Wood G.; Rubinsten O.; Henik A. (2011). Meta- analyses of developmental fMRI studies investigating typical and atypical trajectories of number processing and calculation . * Developmental Neuropsychology *. https://doi.org/10.1080/87565641.2010.549884 Abstract : The main aim of the present coordinate-based meta- analysis is to identify brain regions that are commonly activated in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies (fMRI) investigating number processing and calculation in children . Here, we include 19 developmental fMRI papers , five of which also examine children diagnosed with developmental dyscalculia and / or mathematical disability . Results reveal that children produce consistent fronto-parietal activation patterns in response to number processing and calculation . Importantly , activation patterns are clearly modulated by notation , task complexity , and competence level . Activation differences between children with and without dyscalculia are observable in number-relevant parietal regions as well as in ( pre )frontal and occipital cortex . Copyright © 2011 Taylor &amp; Francis Group , LLC. --- Citation (APA 7th): Butterworth B.; Laurillard D. (2010). Low numeracy and dyscalculia : Identification and intervention . * ZDM - International Journal on Mathematics Education *. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11858-010-0267-4 Abstract : One important factor in the failure to learn arithmetic in the normal way is an endogenous core deficit in the sense of number . This has been associated with low numeracy in general ( e.g . Halberda et al. in Nature 455:665-668, 2008) and with dyscalculia more specifically ( e.g . Landerl et al. in Cognition 93:99-125, 2004). Here, we describe straightforward ways of identifying this deficit , and offer some new ways of strengthening the sense of number using learning technologies . © FIZ Karlsruhe 2010. --- Citation (APA 7th): Ricken G.; Fritz A. (2009). Diagnosing math achievement based on competence levels ; [ Ein kompetenzdiagnostischer zugang zur erfassung von rechenleistungen ]. * Pravention und Rehabilitation *. https://doi.org/10.5414/prp21114 Abstract : This paper discusses the effectiveness of diagnostical instruments for diagnosing specific developmental disorders in others than a quantitative way . In the first part we analyse some current tests with regard to their structure and their theoretical base . Considering ways and means of these instruments lead to the necessity to order items in a theory-based scale . In the second part of this paper two instruments will be presented as examples for a diagnostical method which provides qualitative levels of mathematical development . © 2009 Dustri-Verlag Dr. Karl Feistle . --- Citation (APA 7th): Lawson C. (2008). An Analysis of Children's Numerical Difficulties with the Aid of a Dyscalculia Test Battery and a Presentation of Remedial Approaches to Facilitate Aspects of Numerical Development. *Mathematical Difficulties *. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012373629-1.50008-3 Abstract : This chapter provides the information that had been obtained from an assessment involving a dyscalculia test battery . It aims to analyze the children's numerical difficulties and to provide a remedial approach that would help them to learn the multiplication tables . Also , the facilitation of more mature development was expected in relation to number concepts and numerical skills through the establishment of flexible associations between specialized areas or modules as emphasized by Dehaene (1997). It is apparent from the results obtained that a detailed assessment with the aid of a dyscalculia test battery provided clear information concerning the numerical difficulties experienced by the participants . After taking part in the remedial sessions , the children could access any item from the multiplication tables , obtain the answers more quickly and retrieve them more often by direct recall . Also , they could use other approaches such as locating an item near the correct answer as a cue and then recall the required item or count up or down in various ways to reach the appropriate answer . Alternatively , they might use some arithmetical knowledge involving addition or subtraction , perhaps that associated with doubles or make use of commutativity as an aid to retrieving the correct answer . © 2008 Elsevier Inc . All rights reserved . --- Citation (APA 7th): Weißhaupt S.; Peucker S.; Wirtz M. (2006). Measuring preschool mathematical knowledge and predicting student's abilities and deficiencies in mathematics in primary school ; [ Diagnose mathematischen vorwissens im vorschulalter und vorhersage von rechenleistungen und rechenschwierigkeiten in der grundschule ]. * Psychologie in Erziehung und Unterricht *. https://doi.org/ Abstract : This article investigates the influence of preschool mathematical knowledge on mathematical abilities and deficiencies in primary school . In a longitudinal study , 129 children were tested six months and two months before entering primary school with a diagnostic instrument for measuring the development of numerical concepts (DEZ). DEZ measures preschool mathematical knowledge in ten subdimensions . The dimensions are based on concepts derived from developmental psychology . CFT 1 was used to measure the children's nonverbal intelligence . At the end of the first year of primary school , students ' mathematical abilities were measured using DEM AT 1 +. Structural equation modelling showed that mathematical knowledge from preschool serves as a very good predictor of student's later performance in mathematics . Nonverbal intelligence does not enhance the amount of explained variance significantly . Individual prediction of mathematical deficiencies based on a classificatory approach was successful . The sensitivity of the diagnostic instrument (DEZ) proved to be particularly high . Early diagnostics and early mathematical education in preschool age are discussed . © Ernst Reinhardt Verlag München Base. --- Citation (APA 7th): Kupfer P. (2004). Every 20th patient suffers from dyscalculia : Living by the pocket calculator ; [ Jeder 20. Patient leidet an dyskalkulie : Leben am tropf des taschenrechners ]. *MMW- Fortschritte der Medizin *. https://doi.org/ Abstract : [No abstract available ] --- Citation (APA 7th): Ramaa S.; Gowramma I.P. (2002). A systematic procedure for identifying and classifying children with dyscalculia among primary school children in India . * Dyslexia *. https://doi.org/10.1002/dys.214 Abstract : This paper describes the procedures adopted by two independent studies in India for identifying and classifying children with dyscalculia in primary schools . For determining the presence of dyscalculia both inclusionary and exclusionary criteria were used . When other possible causes of arithmetic failure had been excluded , figures for dyscalculia came out as 5.98% (15 cases out of 251) in one study and 5.54% (78 out of 1408) in the second . It was found in the latter study that 40 out of the 78 (51.27%) also had reading and writing problems . The findings are discussed in the light of previous studies . Copyright © 2002 John Wiley &amp; Sons , Ltd. --- Citation (APA 7th): Hemminger U.; Roth E.; Schneck S.; Jans T.; Warnke A. (2000). Methods of diagnostic testing to assess skills in reading , writing and arithmetic : A critical survey ; [ Testdiagnostische verfahren zur uberprufung der fertigkeiten im lesen , rechtschreiben und rechnen . Eine kritische ubersicht ]. * Zeitschrift fur Kinder- und Jugendpsychiatrie und Psychotherapie *. https://doi.org/10.1024//1422-4917.28.3.188 Abstract : Summary : Methods of Diagnostic Testing to Assess Skills in Reading, Writing and Arithmetic : A Critical Survey . Objectives : The diagnosis of a specific developmental disorder of reading , writing and arithmetic can be made based upon individually applied standardized methods for testing scholastic achievement and IQ. To make the choice of suitable methods easier for the administrator of the test, a critical survey of German-language methods for assessing skills in reading , writing and arithmetic is presented . Methods : Test intention and psychometric properties for scholastic achievement are summarized . The methods are assessed with regard to their utility in the diagnosis of congenital alexia and dyscalculia . Supplementary suggestions for clinical assessment are given . Results : In summary , beyond thee primary school area there is a lack of current standardized methods that meet the current standards of quality . Particularly the assessment of arithmetic skills above those of the 4( th ) grade level require resorting to methods of dubious curricular validity Coverage is once again better for the upper elementary and middle school levels . Conclusions : There is a need for new constructions , respectively a need to update published scholastic achievement tests .